. ,. ,.
. si nisi) ;sihm-silsiwith it, &eptxtss—Szctfhfeh ss
04] wsut authocity-g whieh utter ruzzumgsi
sisisict autsioloodthed,ftktttuCh-M_ ot_ property ss
crt'm'ow of an civtt laud scilgmua et:—
ac hit came to its gnal (siccucsiimg
' ] tucsi'zsstun of cant: tintf (univ
mott Berc-cic-us dcipguht, And issctsi
ct most' sughctu) depravattoti et mutzuzj , sissssisisi 5
]tist the fame game 15 now Put;- msisisi-sssssi
ne". and wilt aum must come to tue tum;
sseoqnfgs ye no: taken to prevent t:.ss sit: ;ss; .sict
sississknmm stiysidlzsit we are,? free peussszsisi
call'wf ÞFÞ prudded Upon. 1 ne .sssin.txisisitcct 4
ss . shzch ],McnotzlmI the uuctvusgai sin.
. mnrss'isifctssam] ths: pure and 3s=ﬂcxsihc vsszvsiss ?
_iul;rfi5,d,sslittie avaited hsr ?gointt :tZ'lZfiCCS ss
'4id Wsuspcct, against cxccﬂes to vcthzm {he -
"A sin;)- contentptttf us wist.;ttntt, and
ss- & plots, crnsptmcics and. can]
. om'ssss
(L': DV
I aztﬂb'i
Pimtss t'-, lo
r-wecn'mg cnnfsiiztetisie in her
astrengzh, EffiiljtiC-l impussiry. cttzasii the 11:
du: liss.; {topped the pztvcceuzngsi-tnct Jtsitz—
. ltimuinshsishc woum net he At (34.- dctsi, n.:n— -
{him; [or hcrtuth liberties? and wt'tthsit_tttg uttsi
th: all coniumtng bullul shade sit . teatsin \
editu- Let Amcrica profit by her cxctmsi-ic (
(he does next the deserves tlsitvet'y. "
'lsihev' have not read of the deeztttehand ss
Ilosthc Roman Empivc, whq Wlii luisidect 4
.* author ofgreat pattihlity to.: the cause '
.seligiun, yet Mr. Gthbon in a letter
. Lo'td Suﬄeld, written in the year ! j-s-I '
. 1 Switzerland where he then refined,
-. on the {rightful aiteration whtch
'xcnch intercourse had made in that coun
ly, and says, " I have lotnettmes theft
.* ofwri:ing a dialoguc of "the sittezzd, 'lti
* which Lucian, Etasmus, and Volzutrc
' * should mutually acknowledge the. dav.
! ger of eXpofing an old sutsi—etiiitt-si-n tu
' the contempt of the Mind Zlsad temttcl
* multitude." In the same letter he {3} 5,
' lsubscribe my assent to Mr. Burkcsiz
feed on the Revoiution of France ; I ad
.n itchis eleqnence ; I approve his FtZ-iitics;
ladme his chivalry; and I can ::ch-tt
rgive his reverence so: church efiztbli}! .
nts." Thus he who ccu!d*cn$y bring
himselsto almost sorgishc Burke's ICH'setti e
siss-t church ettahlishments out of con pitmttzt
tohisgenetsitl principles, disappruves he
cpusise he tecOgnizes the danger of er-pcsmg
even an old suprrttiticn to the conr-sisiznpt at
the hlitld and fanatic multitude. 50 ttiULi:
fcr—the authority of opinion. Having ;:re
inised this, we proceed to lay befozc v-sizz
readers an abttract of Mr. chi's sittss-site.
DCM. ct
He alledges that for three years past
there has exi-Red in New Yozk :: su'ret
ibciety, gratsited upon and in all shBPCSsiTS-ct
sembling the sects of Illuminati to which
Abhe Barruel :sstd PfOsi'ssOs Robinscn have
atttibuted all the disafi'ets which hate
hcsallcn the nations of Eurcsie. After
mentiorzing the liluminatis in Eurosisie' he
proceeds— ' si , '
" 'Ihe society in New.Yot'/., a h-Z-Lh
lum ahout'to describe, was in fact a'stsscietsivct
of this nature, erccted in rebeilic-n to the
xxucxoes acts of thesistate. 'i his wilt
he proved from their censiitution, end the
confession of several of the memhets. It
_ ts'zs a society fraught with the blatsikcs;
tntentions, m Overturn the divine tet-eia
tim, ard to raise the hand Of upgm'itiotsix
against the opinion of every chniZiunss
'sheir-{cheme was nctot confined to tlze'siare
of New Yetk, but following the example
Of the ]}luminati in EuroFe, it will be
seen sffim the ninth atticle of their printed
conﬂitucion, that they had corresponding
ecmmittees, to propagate their new trhizt).
M'h 'A" ()VC
.-s0ph)' throughottt tsshessivorld."
" .Again si
' *ss* The origin of shis society was, how
Her, mote sy—ﬂematical than either th
_ leeu of Switzerland, or any other ;;er
B.!ps ctofct the description which has been
:eRJBlZ-shLd. ' silt arose upon the ttzins 01
: lsshctelehrztcd democratic !ociety ol New
'Yotk, in tfic same—mznner as the lilumsi
!sixit'i originatcd-fmm the remarkable lodge
o! tbeBchic Mxsonry, at Pvflunith,.caIlec
she TNCKZCTC of godd (buntil; it war
tomp-zstd of the scattercd dregs tsizt' thsse
jacobin infidels, who covered the demo
fsscmic scciety with disgtase, and sned a
degree oissodium upon the puttsi dottrinc of
Rpobltcanism, wlich the tss'orts tz-f tho
virtuous )ssatriot will not for years wipe
Way ; it issued from the tomb cict its taiion
Pﬂftnt, liken soul spectre, blottcd witt
sifslmes,_gapirg with vengeance, :an eager
w dzag the weak 'and unsuspiciccsct mind
"up she ahyss cisieternal torment. As she
gnccless son of a gra'cltss family, mofi
fuqueml) exerts all his ingenuity to'
??mplete sheinshmy osa ruintd reputa
"99, so tke members of the Theistical
UY meditated upon every st'htssme tp'
'dd sihcsilast nproach to their characters,
-!__ _
many broken and deigxiisscd. The m);
PQNed scvm of she Edinbursigb convezztion,
and !}sie refuse of the banishcd rc—lzels Gf
]!Fland, joined 'aYsQ their hearts and hands J
"siub' the insidsls 0s_ chs'sszk, in Him- ?
Muzsszbil ssirciety; ]: was it. s'siczz 5
0
Icmbfuatmu of trea'þncry, of msimffiucss
of frenzy, intemperancc and mery species
of polluted baseness, for the purpoie —ot
combati siteligion, virtue and wisdom
Among [ged a motlyss crew, one might!
. suppose their resolutions would be marked
.vich folly and ignorance- , but this was
not {he Cane , for althou-sirh all the devils
w :sii_ci1 issued from Pasindora s box, may be
'Fsizsctnoszctzsid. to have had ;: voice in their
decrees , )et it is to be remembered, that
\ each of .hem had been previously exercised
tor several years in simi Ict'u ful .emes, and
mentum knew howss to gloss (he blackest
\ illanv under xhc specious veil of morality. L
!
!
with more security in their niuh tly citbals,
They were no nossytces m ssthts [UPCCt ;}
ths}; were nct strangcrs tosi the art oit
cusit. it-g or ucceit. They were well ac
quainte} bath how to make . and lay their 1
traps, so as to be invisible to any eye, not
tinged ttith suspicion. Iikc ['t-Wines]
rcbsihcrs, they atsitct'cizttel with, iL-i med and
matted thc !1.1hitt.d<s o't indutﬀy and
religion during the day, that thby might
mnnglc the divine; rcvclationctsi tnto a ban
quez et pleasure, and season the mo: I;; of
the Fathets, vith the seems 'cf Epicurezm
philosophj'. All their izttcrcottsesiall theitct
aﬀtocs and de alings were insefiicusct— !
They were the hidden instruments ot H'TC
and torment; like poisqnous plants, coi.
rupting all about them."
Mr. Vvssood then acknosiwsissledfsszsi; tuzt to
tais general dcsssripxion tZ terc arc sotuc ex._
1
!
ceptsizn of Weihmeaning men, delu-sictzeti by
the azsitsttl, speeipes logic of their friends—
" Bet these well meaningmemi-z—rs were
kept apart, as will he proved, from th
rittglettdtrs—they were toeaHy untie.
quatnted with their schemes—they imit
gined nothing was transacted but in their
presertce— they had no idea thattthere were "
ditierent grades. in the sheietyn-tl-ect-ss were
ignorant of the dizthoiical Plans which were
daily forming by the direccors-—they knew
nozhing about the proceeding ot' sucret
cotnmittees—-they imagined there were
none superior in knowledge or rank to
themsehsics. Like honest fimpletons, they
thcught tail Which they saw and heard was
for the puhiic good. They, therefore,
made no secret ot'comtnunicating what they
knew to their friends ani acquaintances,
they rather exhorted them to become
metrzhers of the eharitahie institution, to
stake of its hlcsiingq, to & be t-nlighten.
csitsiby the inﬂuence of its doctrincs."
(To be continued. )
.V. r. quu 4p';/7.
_ _ 'Lezct-a'm, j'zz/ctv 17.
'Itsiis with eitt'ret'ne regret we learn, that
the English interest at Constantinople is
evidently On the decline, while that otsith:
French daily receives the most decided
pteserencesi; All Frenchmen these experi
ence the greatest marks otssdistinction z-nd
et'ieem from th; Captain 'Pacha ; and dif.
fetent European! in the service of the
Porte, as Swedish ship builders, the gar
dener ot'the eragiio, See, have been dis.
missed, to make room for artifieers from
the Rt'pablic. ctT-his pat-tiaiity is of such.
consequence to us in a political and com
mercial point of view, that to oﬀer any
teﬂecticns upon its consequenees would be
an insuit to the-undershnding of our rea
ders. When the same Noble Lord who is
otsiticially employed at the Ottcmzn Porte,
was enttusted with the interests of this
country at the court of Betlin, they shared
a similar sate !
The French frigate La justice, taken
by the Turkssssissssat Aiexandria, has been fit.
ted out in the most magnificent style, and
lies nt-anchor hezsiore one of the palaccs of
the Sultan, in the Canal. It is even ru
ls-ssOsCd that she is about to be restored to
the French.
The put iiC has for some time been ac.
quajrtted with the loss osthe Prince, the
extra ship which was carried into the Mau- t
lrFtiusct The following particulars may
he relied on. sssi-She sailed from Madraa in
Ostober last, with goo prisoners on board ss
under eonvoctv of the Suﬀolk, of 74. gttns,
Capt. Cinrke, Commander, who died three
weeks after. leaving that port. In ten
degrees ofSauth latitude, one evening, the
crew being alott seeking top ssitils, the pri.
Faners, each ha ving a billet of wood con
ceaied under their jackets, cttme Upon deck
and having distributed themselves accord
ing to the previous arrangement of their i
pint, succeeded in securing the ship's peo
ple: Without bloodshed. ' They got posses
fion of the signal hook, and which is sin
gular, remained two days in company of
the Suffolk, reguiariy answering" stgnals,
until they were able to make (sits undes
cribed in a squaii, and safely reached the
h-f-attrititts. si ' ' si
l
, 1
The sOUOWi' ->g E.; 20: 13 C.;ICCZ. ﬂames: zs
trrmshiued to us as a {a :. :ct—A tarmcr
sicn 'lfsixursday attended at Fcnzancc mar
ket, lo?! the third time, wich a bushel of
potatoes, for which he could not find a
purchaser. At lcnsilb, ].ie par: sins: bed;;
exhausted, be we e {hat .Jli-sir :. an carry}
ssthem back, he would sell & am for zz p: me!}
of srufii A person present issn mcdmtcly
accepted che bargain, and rcc'czvcd the Po
fames. . A year since, the !au .c measure
ssos this root was sold scr 265.
!
Prince Subow has shusht cricsisioshis du
els at Carlshad, with M. Gi cboutctt—One
of the parties is said to have bcesin kil
led.
thZ-Esccttssl of Mavence 15 to have Ra.
:Zssshsi'si to! his residencc. He wis} zt'fo have
the BithoPrick of that city , {ever.} small
preltﬂures, and the Buisi liagc Aichasscn.
burg, br'fides a million and haif of ﬂorins
annusl. .y, trom other states of the Empire.
A letter fmm Mudrzs se. ys, " 'H:s
Highness Az cEmulct Dowsiah, the Na bob of
th: Camatic, has sent ..ome "tout letters,
add! e..-c.. to the c—haitman of the E ad ln
dia Company, the ptince ct Males, thcsi
Marquis (ornwallis, a-si' Lord Hobztrt.-——
His highncss also shrpp ed two hoxes, ad
dressed to the'King, and one to the Prince
of Wales.
Accounts from Dreﬄcn fidte, that the
Cc'unt Of Saxe is the person who basbccn
ss ki 1} ed m a ducl by Ptit. cc Subow.
july 18.
Gene r'nl Richepnnse has tra: :Zsm tted ano.
ther cshctal dispttch from Guadaloupe,
dztt ed the zgth May, tn wh; ch hc gives
an account of the complete cxrirction of
the itszmcction in that iﬂand. After tc.
capitulating all the oyeratiorsis Of the extze
ditisicn under his command to May 25,
cbntinues his narrative, from which it ap.
pears that thts victory was de arly bought .
on the part of the I rcnch. Iic enters up.
on a detail of the diﬀerent actions, and
states as the fcsult of the ot-sscxstions, that
the blacks were drich in on all sties to 3 A
plantation called Auglemont, where three s
hundred blew themselves up in the Matm
onsi house, which seems to have been are of
their depots, and the few that survived the
explosion "were put to th'- sword. The
French tresps ate stated to have lost on
' this occasion the act vanced polis of two of
theircolumns. 'lhectgenerttl, in conclud.
ing his dispatch, ohs-css-rtee, " This laft as.
fair has destroyed the insutrection in its
source; the chiess are dead, and the sol.
lowcrs, disarmed, have submitted and re.
sumed their accuttomed iehors. The white
soldich, who were unablesito quit the itiand
were at the time of our arrival collected
in Fort St. Charles. "she :;eeution os
the plan iaid for blowing them up, and
which was on the point of being carried
into eﬀect, sailed in consequence of the
promptitusie wi'h which our troops put
[tied the enemy on the "evacuation of the
fort. "
Some account 3 lest shght resehed' town,
relatitjc to the tete o. the 14th. sslhcy
agree in shiting that it Was dull, ittanitnute
ands :arcely worth) of nott te. The sa
rade alone vsisi as condccted with some de 'sii'sLC
ofmi 'i] tasypomt , and the m....her ut U'O'si , s
was so great, that the catals) wete com.
lied to remain upon the Place de Carou.
( te], which had been 'cl-si ated actiay for the
FUFPOsC,\Shiist thei tzttazttt) fiile-i the sDZICC
betv. een the pziaee and the iron taictisslt
which separtttes the court ).ttd trcssm the
palace.
\ The newiy incorriorated Mamfhi; es
about [50 in numh r, richly drdt & in
'Luikish habits, and wax} mounted, t..z.de
their first puhiie appearatss ee on the pztszztie.
Benapatsite seemed much pleafed with them.
Dcputies from all the corct-cts presented
themselves, end to many new regimems
were given new colours. Th-siy were all,
however, to meet at Versaiiies, for the
purpose of Zss-siiltg at the grand dinhcr
which the consul intend ' togite them in
the great galiery of the palace. h'ladame
Bonaparte returned to Paris from ?lomhietsis
on the 't zth. The theatres were all opened
:_to the public graris, on the evening pre
ceeding the feliivai ; and when the accounts
came away, preparations were making so: ss
a general iilttmination, and a coztcezc in
the garden of the Thu li-z-ties. No tickets
were delitered for the gallery of the
alace.
Weieam that the Firate Egee, who
some time since made his "escape after his
capture in the Persian siGuhsih, has been te.
taken in the hillcountry of Keram, isct
about to be brought down in chains to
Guzzcrat.
The man who was lately bound to keep
the peace for threatening to cut oﬀ lus:
i
i
.
m-[sesis 'sisiz' .z. FTO {issefictdz—ai be only vfshcd
to make hcctr agaasl fwomssan !
The intelligcx ce from the hop mazl—zc-c-is
of a di idor'cczjble kind: The piamaumsiss
in Kcnc are daily becoming w;orse she
vcrmi n base &! peared m great numbers:
'in several grounos the plants and turning
black and in a state otdeca)ss'.On'1huss..
day bets were oﬀered at Canterbury a
g'ainst 4g,oool old duty. The last prices
arc,-—bags 5]. 55. very fine: 61. los.su..
perfinc East Kents 71. 73,
ss.-, .... --—--o -- —si
MctCARA and 'FRLctDGE
H/ssfvcjﬂ/Z ctsim'ctct' :: W HOL ESALE S'ronsis.
in King strssessfs, bþM/zte SNoctwct'sDEN
PRlNTLNC CFFICE,H fu-Zere l/va have a
'I'nrg e and general Afﬀartmmﬂqf MER
CHJA L 1 ZE, fu'bie/y t/Jctfj fw ill sell laft)
foz Cctsisi/sb or apprafvca' Aotgs, at 60 day:* ,
-—C0N31srmc OF—
Coarle and fine Cloths, sicoat—
inge, blankfts, fiauncls, cordurccts. chicksctts,
sishiﬀrjsins calimamncs, cheeks, British nwﬂins c-f
cvchy (.cscripzimz, siik hctandkcrchivss, libbe-nsss,
ydong satzins, romals, pulicatcs, thread 1accs
and c.£g:1,,rss, c-zssttom anl Chin: zcsi, shawls,
fancy pockct handkcrchicfs, dimicics, hishl'wch',
! rovm Fu Hands tq ilnmtssiuctnn hus1Ery,sc-wi:1g
1'.ks.tach c': ths; threw s, ws! xtc and colsurcd—zss- '
fy xhc pound or p: ckagc; hats m caics assortssed-*
knives and so-rks, {cimrsss &ssc &c. &c. .
I hcy will receive a suxthcl supply (sit GOO'L-S-si
by the car v lail vcﬂcls.
I'o LTL ,the House m King
ﬂrcct latc'fsis occupied by Mr. M'Cullochct-e
Apply as :z'siwovz.
Ecpt. xzct - . ss _ e02m.
0\
NJA'VHA bsis'ssxLVE jun;
Has jbr Sale at lo!: Stare, corner ofPrint? -
ari buion strctcu,
'Þssiolassesis !} hhds, and barrels,
S-lgz- r in b11re2s,
(A sicc nni Pcnpcr, in bags. ,
;!Izsvnlkin and Suuchong 'lca, __
Lcipe. : Hmss, in !12f barrc23 an d— Legs!
ass atcd,
Ra sin , i:. kegs and bnxcsi.
Wost lndia m: d New Engkssmd Rum,
V &: {L'y and App : Brandy,
M deira an} Ma21gsia Wir'cs,
.M c'zs' F'U'l Hats, mbsxsi-s,
hdil ( on on and Ravens Duck, ,
SoJ ! 63 21 r avd 'lax-sicr s Oil, and a few
pieces handszmc: lsi'urniturc, c nsisting 01 c'wo
cf'ur-ctut (..a'r-im ts and 8 01: Cuscs one bide"
2m r *,I. asiiics Secrezariesshurcasix' 5,W ash Scandsss,
Lh :; 3. &c'. &c.
N. 1}. He gives ('ash sorsiFIax-Sccc'.
kept. 17. cotf.
jUST RECEIVED,
si-I/zdjsscr Sole 5), tZ-c/kbscribers at the far.
rer of ?: inn.- and [Valcssr Streets.
Te".'.E:.0!and Rum in barrels, ber's.
Buston Bay Iss ackerell. pickel' d Salmon,
\Vha2clsi.2) ], mould and dip: Candles, brown
Soap, Allum Sa2r, A22um Ground, ditco,
'n , do. three boxes Tumblers, 2 hhdzsi.
A2lum, 1 case fashionable men's Hacs, :!
few caiks Bordeaux Claretsit, Grinsi fiones,
isshode Iﬂ'md Lime, best man:"factured
Richcnond Tobacco, and a general assort.
ment os Ladies and Genclcmcns d'hoes.
JOSIAH FAXON, &? Co.
September S. eo3w
( ss'iR VlNG, GlLD/AG, (mal
IsisiA-RNISHl—si v'G.
:sszss. RACHEL ATKINS,
(Fr; si ..1 Philad'c—Iphia)
4/2 P1\['\ CE STREET,' Jcsiiz ram Fair nsix'
and Hsa'er Streels, next door to 01"
Did ; in the house lates} occupied Esiv
Grssve lsilsirig/zt,
Res pecztull) informs the citizens of
:chandria that she intends refiding here
for a few morss .ths, and will be he: ?nv in
cxccuting siany orders to the above branch.
as of buiincss. She regilds and 'sv rnishes
u2d Framcs so as to make them zppsiar like
ncw—mzd !; keWisc varnishes them Wl-h &
panicxﬂar kindsiot' varnish-shat will bear
wushivg.
S/M l'ds o-l L.": 7,7J ,
A large 31 (1 elegant asiortmcnt of
Pzin ts and Looking- Glahcs
of cvcx) dcfcsiption, which will be fold
on che lowest terms for cash.
Orders hear 3 (2 stance will be punctu.
& ]) attend & tc. _
SLL-Wm' ver 3. . - 'eo
GUNPOWDER.
.;ss
,;
Baltzmore Bellona Gunssbou'cler,
by the quarter cask. Also,
Rcssmed Salt Petrc, byZ/ze guar
rer cwt. or larger quantity. A ('(msiant
,siupply of those articles from the Manusac
my, will be kept (or salc on the lowest
:erms,by
. LAWRASON 5 SMOOT.
Aprll S. co6m