si ssiﬄctdu THE N. Y. Evemrzcss Posr. - s
sisi'Lsizsiifuct'l expassf'zcttim of the Ci'intoniarz faction.
' _ 'si . 6- and [in Socizlr of [be ' ctsi si sssi
ÞCOLUMBLAN ILLUEleNATI,ss-ch.
BY jOHN 'Woco.
CONC-LUDED. w _ ss
_ The mast inﬂaxsitsided zsatots of the Ro
_=si*si'mish Church sell short of this pious society
in eagemcss to.: perscc-Jtim on one hand, 1
_ jssss and forjpmse'ty-tiisim on the omen 'l'hcy
L' have (pared neither expence nor pains to"
:* "citculate books of l.ujdesity and jacubin
ism, and to their zeal the public is indeht.
* ed for aH the edisicatlons communicated
_ by the Temtz'e qunyZ-Y, theLthe gui
"" 'dance Of Drtscoll, the apoicttatizz-d Psitpiih
priest. "The first diisssimlty, the want of
"? ss money, was surmounted by Mr. C—lzenh-im
himself, who itt the impetuosity of his
si zeal, is said n0t oniy to have become se.
sisi curity for the typcs, but in & fit osgenesous
indiscretion to have betrayed his need cha
racter and princip'es to soinc of his sub
fcribets. \Vaod, who knows the man,
says, ** In place of t! e vukgar stupidiry
* si " which unveilsthe projects OF Dcnnis.
_ si " tcn's brain, Cheethsitm potL-sses all the
si " cunning of an anshl proitizuae that usih
" der a placfd countenance 'tnasks deep
'si si " designs, and plotting vengeance ;" yet,
in this cause so ardent was this same
, 'si '_ Cheetham for the pubkic good, so did his
__ howels yearn with compzffion for the ]
!
I
!
,."N
' siblindness of mankind that he became blind
' himself, and inclosed DriscoH's-hand bills T
* in every one oshis papcrs intended for his 3
])eistical customers, but unfc—rtunatdy the ?
castles, not beingfo deeply verscd in mo
,.si-' " dem phi!oscphism as to know a true irctfi
del from a (hsifiian by the sound szshis
dame or the stent ofhis house, distsibuted
the papcrs indiscriminatesi-y. 'l'he Unis.
tianssshhscriberssswere 'swprized and dis.
pleased and the mischief it is inptoied was
noc quite heaicd by a wry humbie apc-io
gy. \\ hell Driiczo. began to succeed,
"our trccious so- tery wanted t) finoer ( me
of the P: .cfits ; but it was soon sound that
" cmonmance, intreaty , argument, nay
—- Biilingigate, had no eﬀect Upon the Him) 3
r-fenes of the old bioocfied inside], aho,
Vsith all the sun" frcia' of an old pedlar,
sssi' 'and the sagacity oi a jctuit re fitted their
' iolicitutions, retained the settce, and left
si them ail lo gromhle 'zmozsi-g themsehes,
" exclaiming with Falstassss *.4 plagu: up
on it- 'When regne; can 't be !rue to must
ol/Jer". si-o, pickznss- 0 51 his ! rcss & t) pes
be moved to Phihxdelct hia, " ::d taking post
under Daane, endeavored b) 'tmakiz 0 fresh
)rosel) tes, to repair tle itssjur) he had
done the societ) . He was not unsuccess.
iul ; a suhordinate societ) was soon estab
3 lished under his a-sszspices in that city, and
another at Baltimore, but boxh undsir con.
ﬂizutional patents from the methe: socicty
* here.
'I hey now begin to asissire to an exten
sum of their prigfiples. lhe) feared that
none but those who had been already con
'ver'ed from Christianity would read their
sss semplt of Reason. To steal a march wi h
it upon be Iievers would, they conceived,
be a meritorious fraud, and the) had re
si course to the soliowing, a curious and de.
xer ex'pedient for the purpose—Having
laid their plan, a committee was appointsi
* ed, who wattcd on \siI :. Donald ['mzer,
a pious Christian teacher, who had just!)
ained some credit b) answering Painct'e s
-' Age of Reason, and him they oprevailcd
upon to take up the defence of christiat ny
- and set upa paper called the Temffile of
Cctgrst lh1\,they ju d,ged Would occasi- U
on bozh to he read, and they had vapicy
enough to think that they should make
qctxick work of the—argumemsssof Mr. Fra
- zer. However, their picusaud benevo
' lent plan was frufiratcd by one of Mr.;
' Frazer's srieqjs, who having s—ss-me hims ot ssct'
'lhe intentions of the Illuminati, commu. '
' nicated the information to him.
Mr. Wood states the number osthe so.
ciety to be very considerabie. "
_ "* The number of membcrs in the list
'issdf the Theistica} socisity ofsiNew-York,
Which I have amounzs to ninety five; I
'ctwOuid give their names, 'but this wouhi
"serve no purposc, and Only exFose their
semilies, perhapctct, to misery; me,); am- of
_thcm however, is in politics a Clintonian,
and several of them have been promotcd.
to offices by the Clinsiton imcresi. Their
love for Mr. De Yv'itt Climon, p'oceeds
in a great measure from an idea then he is
-ssa deist ; whether he is so or not, it-isim.
mifible for me to decide; it is 'si'eough
that they thinks) and on that supposition
they will almof} hazard rheir'hvcs in his
\bCh-ds. On: thmgsihwwevcr, is certainctj
r \ si - -
si
(hat Mr. Clim' on has aﬀorded bass; latron'}
age to several who were avo ?d deiﬂsss
and he has even been the means displac.
.nig Christians to maker room .dr deiﬂs.
ihe Flesent agenc for the 'I em' k of Rea
son, inssNew- Yosirk, is well known to be
indebted to Mr. Simon for thclucrativc
sicuazion m the mercamilc 1ine,sivhich hej
;!fi-pmsCtsi-t enjny s. One ostl'e members cfi
si tsiss'e Lﬂsssa-HHC fy t/Jat "Stafrsif, who was;
lssoiﬂcd in by the Ciinton interest, is :\n*
mouedstzsiparte) and flat r of t/.*e pfiji
(.mt Pa/mr, and for ought ] know, also
a me:].be'r of the highest grade among the
Zlunn'mti; for there wcac sexera], \'lr.
B. son telis me, who bszlonged lo the high
csz gra-sinc, that never met in tue gencra I
cu: n-cnrionct
" 'l hc oath tu ken by the directors in
--the highestct1 ("a.e, was nearly the same
wss'ith the ozsinh :] Jminifiered to the minena]
among the Illuminzni, when he became an
"iiluminatus minor, and mut, without
doubt, have been copied srctom :t- It was
reported to me in these woxds—
], a member of the 'I heistica} Societ) ,
" protest before )on, the worthy Prcsi-si-Cnt
' us our order, that I acknowledge m)
' natural weakness and inabiiit); and that
ss' ], m ith all my posssse siions, rankﬂhmu. s
si' 'and titles which I hold in poiitie al soei
' et), am at bottom on!) a man; lean
' enjoy these things only through my fel
' low men, and throng h them ai .o I ma)
' love them. 'Ihe approbatioss.) andconst -
s . detation of my fellow men ate indispen
' sably neceﬂaty, and I must try to main
' tain. them by all my talent). 'l'(h se I
:ct * will never use to the prejudice ns- univer
' sal good, hut will nppose with all myss
' might, the enemies essithe human )ace, {
* and of political societ)". sisiI wiil embrace
( met) O'vnortunity of serving mankind,
' by imp'roving m) undetsianding and nnss)
' assecticns, and hv impctrxing all Ltnpas- ss
' tant knowledne, as the good and tlasi
' tures of this orter require of me. I
-' bind m) self to terpetnal "zest ease, and}
* unsha—ken loyait )s and shhmvliinn to the ss
' ord r, in the person of our P cszdent, )
* here makinga faith in] and enmpiete set- j
" rensi-er est .) (mate jndgme'm, my own ?
' will and ever): narrow [I. inde em) lo) -
:' ment of try power and inﬂuence. I'ss
' pledge m) seltsi to account the good us the si
' order as myown, and am ready to s-rve
' it with my sortune,tn)' honor and m) )
' blood. Should I through omission, ne- )
' g: .ect, passion c.- Wi(kedness, behave enn ]
' trary to the gnoctd Of the ende), ] sub
' ject myself to w} ass'tss reproof or ])Uitish- '
' ment our Presidesint shall enjoin. 'lsshe
' friends and enemies of the order shall L-e
* my friends and encmies'; and wist;.- se.
' spect to both, I wiil COnduct myselsas
' directed by the order, and am ready in
( every law siui way to devote mystis to
its increase ard promoticn, and thetein
to employ all my abiiit) All th? si
promise and protest, without secret reser
vation, according to the intention of
the societ), which require srom me this
engagement * 'This I do as I at..- ,
' and as I hope to continue a man osho.
" nor.
" I have now related the origin and
progress os Illuminatism in this eoe ntry.
It arose, the reader will perceive, upoin
the ruins of the demoeratic soeiet)- ,
first exhibited itseik in the form osa )sihi.
losophiealchb; then assented the more
meta physieal appeilation of the Theisiieai
Socie ty , dividel itself into diﬀerent
grades and orde s, after the example of
the institut; on of Weishauvt, and separate
constitut-ions and separate oaihs, appropri
are to the sever al grades. They had also
pass words, )) hisi hI forgot to state. Mr.
BZR ton si) s, the pass word in the gene- al
convention, was hall). After the exam
ple of the German Iliumi nati, they ais-z
established pabliea'tions for the express
purpose of diss- minating th :! principle) ,
the) sent e0pics of these pusibiieati ns to
Paine at Paris, and to the Prestdent of the
Uni ed Stat es. By means of aeorsesssssymd
in committee, similar sucieties wete
estab'iished in the di (? rent cities es Ame
rica. Their pz'iDCiplCS in paliti(s corns.
pond ))is-h th(ir id cas osreligien, )iz. th(
!
"
Had"
Li
rankest jacobinismsi, with the vilz'fi siieifssm.
They all attacked themselves :o she inner
est of Mr. Dc'7ittC1intonjjssndgin 7, pro,
bably , bya dknowledgc of his cousin Dun.
nition, that he womd be savorablc coci xcir
cause, and Mr. Climoff in return a} pears
not to be ungratesikssulsi. He has been (he
means of displacipg several worth) chris.
tians to make wav let them; and he le
itows in boux-tiﬄ measure, all his patron
age to supper: their psivliaical ;assr, the
JZXmer can Cixizen. Nothing can prcve
more i.'-si"mc't1_) the mutual & cizion anij
)
sit
I
!
i
.sympathy which cxiit het .veen Mr. Clih.
(on and the Co'zsiumhian Ill uminaci, than
thus?: acts pt kindness. 'lhe link which
connects the infijcls of New York with
the Clintonsif ..ziiy , must now be obvious,
"and the ardcncsizeal, u hich is dlsplaycd to
promote the greazncss of that samily. "she
Columbian llluminati are" not to be des.
piscd, although there are no principle cha'.
xacters among them. They are to be
dread .ed, and ever} good chrilsiian ought to
use: his cxcrtiuns to crush their endeavors.
In the" words o. ctsiRoh—insm, " (heir torch,
though oil'Qe grosscst mate: inls, darts with
a horrid glarc in: 0 every corner, rou..r.g
,hundrcds of fiiihy vermin,a and dirckiing
'(hcir ﬂight to the 'ztcen carrion, whe rc
they can hest depnsit their poison and their
eggs, in the brcaﬂs, to wu, ofthe sertsuai
and-ssprcfiigate, there to sester and burst
forth in a new and fiithy progeny."
It may nOtheimpmper to add a few
words as to the evidence on which this
ss p.:mphiet is framed—tst. It comes net out
anonctvmouﬂy, with vaunting challenges
to prosecute, am! a promise that the sucsits
(.sim be moved in a court os'iztw, if neccs.
sary, but it appears under the real name
ok'one who thus not only esipzses himself
to the pains and penalties 01 3 prusccuzion,
iswhat he puhiishes is: libeiious; but to &
degree of intitmy which must inevita
bly drite him from the means of getting
his bread. zsii. Ast'er mentioning that
the number ris'the members actually in
his possrfiion amounts to nine!) si-ve, he
gives the names of the persons from whom
he received his information : George Ba.
_ ron and Wiilisizm Carver are the two wit
neiscs he produces, and he describes a third
s-.> as he may he ensziy reccsignizsti, a
young Quasilsicr, & Ph) sician, but whose
mine at his own tequest iscsiunceaied. 311.
In addition to their testimony, and in
support oi it, he gives tzs itttportant writ
(sin exi-isi-ncc, 15: (azyh'fiutisct/z rst/Ze Scsscz'cty.
4ah. lie adds & well cmtrsiesiteti chain of
circumt'tances which carry on the face of
them such marks us COssCsisifﬂCsS as_wc think
must satissy the tttt'siiersisiinssiing no less than
the express detssizzraticn of witntsisscs, and
which is not true- wiil aﬀord thuie con
cerned a izetter Opportunity to detect the
tttisrcprc-siscntatson, and defend themselves.
And here it tmy hc pertinent to make one or
two rcmssu ks sin this 'ast species of testimony. 'i'his
is certainly a case whetsie positivc and dinect prout
1 could harh/ he e>:;>ccte-l. ] iic' nsirure 01 iil': cum
bssittution i' {his, c'azsir'icd on in th': most stt)'iiel'iuu—ss
secrecy, almost etz-si'iudes the isi'esit es psisixivc [firm,s.
ss And when to this we utiu' th: oath that every
member takes at his acimisiiunftimt " sosis.vear
ing aii ments.] rcssrvatian, hc wii never X'cvcai,
by hit:t,'\\.sisstd_. writing or in any manner whate
ver. even to his must tcut'ssici srisi-n-i any thing
whichshntticl he said to him,"it v-sinu'sd be lu
wonder is :he circuznstanciui pru<.!sshsitd been even
ics— sati—ssizctory than it 1=. it must be remembtr
ed that we ale much indebted tus thc evi-icncc
11 w iaij'Lci'ctre th.- puhiic to George Bumn'sss
h wing conrri ed in & mutncr teisiated in the pant
phfct tn cssusile ttkiug the 0: 11 01":th wh-ct-Ic, we ct
think this c =n.;urrcncc Os circumstances, ssitppnst- ;
et! as thty arc by direct evidence, & cspccictlly,
is thy remain., as thzy yet do, ezzti'e'fy tu'con
siti'udicted, must c mnplctely s.-.ti;—sy the'understand
insir of every sect ler, both of the tXisiiCchLOfthis
infi ici sctsizciesymf its pernicious designs. and of its
desht: "tive CsssictoUsiYOll the minds and morals' of
this c msi.tmnsi-it\.si. '
This is nsio nllace. we are weii aware, to in
troduce rciigiqius topics sut' discussion, it will !]UZ
bc: exiicc cd, it wsiss-uld bc imprupcr and cut us
ihicc to attempt it ; but it is our duty, and God
forbid that through lsizisc shame: wc sh .lzid 'shrizvk
from it, it i.— our duty to hear open, nd public,
and loud, and Coritiimcd tcsh'm-ssmy against all
those instituti-zn— which cori'up'iiig pOiLZC-il, ma)
sili,-'lilki religious pi'iiiczpfcs, hue a hsi-iicfzi] Csscct'.
on {he zsiocity in which we live. lissmwing th:
elegant and parlutic lunguctgc (I th.- all but in
spich Muckcnzic, t-z- hisrcziduzs— ss
** ] will n )\V (itiml fczl'til armed at all points,
to rcpel the attacks which iHsissici: may make on
the great pi-incipfcs, of csissur be isif; but [it on:
suggestion suffice:, cxciusivc nisi all intunai- exi
dcncc or cxtrisisi: proof of rcvc-aximi. He that '
would undermizw th iic suuniatisms up ]] whisih
tlchsictibric of um future ii. ppiuctrrss I'CMCLi, ssi-cks to
beat dosiin that COiU'hH, which supsimiis ths s._
blencss ol humanicy—Tet him then tliizzk a n'o
mcnt, and his heart Wlil arrcsii ciic crucky of his
.,ui-posc—wuuli h; p'uck its iiu-lc treasure from
the bussi-in of poverty ?--Wa='-.ii.i hc wrest its
crutch fz-nm Th': hanj of age.. and remove from
[sin c;c of ..ﬄzsisi act. the only so -c-c usics vsoc ?-..
l'hz: w iy we ti'caj is-ruggc-i at hch; wctrcsi'i-l
it, imwcvcr lighter by the pruspcct ui that better
country to which we trust it will lead ; tail un
mit that it wili end in the guiph Of eternal diﬀa
lucion. oi'bicctk- is in ssime _wiid vsihi;h s ncy
may siii up 'Jd shc pleases, but rcasun is unable to
de'i.ic;ite , qusi'mh me the beam, which, ;imiiisi
the: night oisirhis evil world. has cliccrcd chc dcs
pondcncy of ictI-rcquitcd worth, and iiiumiucd
tlzc darkness ossuiisicriieg Virtue. '-————
Now i'et me imkc a direct appeal to the reli
gious, the pious, the murasithc l-si-vcr of chchcy,
che. sricnd us social orde", the well wishc: to liu
msiiu happiness, it'asccr having. been made suily
a quimcd wi:h th: exillcncc and c-ssnduct of the
[- cicty which fctrms the subject (s this rcv'cw,
hc c.;n, in his coiiscicnce, ContilZUC co'givc rhsimN
or chose connected with them any further en
cctcctumgcmznc and suppnrc. 1! !.c c.;n—b'ct; it
is not_ to be believe} th..t he can.
..
NEWsi YORK, Scptcmbcr' 17
si _ By the ﬂoop SamzsiRosa we have rc'.
ceived mtelizgence that the Govcmoro?
Hzivanna sshzzd uricrcd the part of Saint .
'Augustidc to, be shut against all Amecican
. _ 1 .
vessels from the ZSKh day of August in:}.
].-etters are received in town h- th
. ., : si \ * .? e
shxp bncphcrdeis irom Cape. [1 ranccls, of (of
hue a dsilt? :lzs che 27-sh Augast, which
mcmion that all .is perfectly tranquil there;
that the mart-cets are dull , and thar &
ngtThuﬂzzlitY prevails amgng {he crogpsi.
of msssiom f.cm 50 to too dle dazly.
3
1
i
PHILADELBHIAss, Sept. 17.
Lfst of Af/ffsiszzu ['zsscsils in the III.; (I;- [a.
P/a/a, m l/Jc 20a/z asLYzss'm, 1802 .
U'siss BsizZ-si'u. Ships IVlc !CUH', lcsirsssm
Eliza, Lvring; M': ntczuma, Lawes P'rssctsi
niss, Rcosizcs; Mincrva, Hali; Msssct-j
mack,Wil£lsi1ms; Resolution, Anlc;
Mve" LsoiILCFS, Lrisisik ; Sulta-ct, Coic, apd-ss
Columbm, "lap;:ing.
Ihsiigs Rlsmg sijun, Could ; Sa. ly, Ta_;.
]Ol'; isiihd Phsishx, CCKUC; sLsss Jancctj.
Cray , and ﬂOOp Bottom, Terry,
Os Plailadelp/Dia. Sths Wax shington,
William son ; fially , M Phers-sim; Aurora,
lhompson; 'lhsee Sisters, Aszslc) ; Ame
ricz, Swan ; Piguu, Colick, & brig Mary,
Norton ; the latter two with Royal Or.
ders ; brigs Rose, Millersiand Msilly liar.
ding ; sch'r Rose Bud, Pss-zzse.
Os Ilium? si'ax- . Ships Mary Ann,
Olncy; RoHa, Arnold, 'and Hannibal,
jenkins; brig Fair, Todd.
OsNct w Tarl'. Silips_()ii 'e, Conklin,
and Oliver Fl lslsuvo th, Henry; brigs Suc.
c-ss, Ccmkiin, or (3 PiUfCsiiiC. '
Of Cc-mzectzszat. S'mp V-illsikEt, Kishum,
and baig Entcrprize, Wiicocks.
Qsfimwlun/z. (will;) ]n._p ], Grant.
Us Porgsi/bsi-msþ, A. '2'. Brig RZO,
Ste;.1ens.
(.j/ zvzgso/k, Br g T'm ly, Hoy ,
Qs Nazzs'zctcl'el. biucp ].) alone;, Pass}
duck.
Thirty eight vessels in all; some of
which inccnsiicd to have sailed {am in
Lalldilsi.
...
i
———ss, 75. ..
I
q . , c., ML
:; zxzttsssiuz Aotxzuxsrr.
P/IONDAY, SEFIEMBER 20.
C'ff TZY au/lsscr of :: ccmnmzisi'zztiez
thra, (si)? Psict-Offictse', 'sisss 7"J]'H'/isic'ts 10 ((in! ill
t/Jess Prizztixsigosisicr, as it ffllcctﬂls/ctssrss. if}:
Editarstvosiv/J ba-Ue a/z ictztersswrsiw avictb ctm
!).si'sare' j/zssf'lsizssbih'Z 1"!
Fram Cid'ralctzr, jub 9, 1302, Hairs!
, at Bg/lov.
" You noduubt will bcsczr: [tow hate
learnt that- Consul Simpsutv, :.t l'ctugicrs,
has been ordered away, and bsi-ing now
here, Var having been desiiared by; the:
Emperor es P-"Iorocrsso agrinii the Lssnftsid
Ssatcs. Vsictc how t'uzi infinite {ss'rchsure in
menti-ctssctng to you that the Emssensir ap
pears to have tepy-ntcd of his sashnctsiss, and
wsiishcs M's. Sitnsizsssm to rsit-ct-rn, uiiuwi-g
six mouths for an answer from Americ...
Without some concsi-stisim from the E-n'pcsi
ror, and mtisying the Did treaty b;!ucsit:
'the two countries, Mr. Sim: ssim is time:
mincd not to goover, and it is not impr -
ba'oie that in a short time acco-sixnts wisit te
received :":ozra your Exccutsive, so as ()
enable matters to be scccch. Wc do not
sun! that any hostilitics lzavc as yet [nen
committed, or for the ytcssisst in them asissy
appearance of it, still vessels cominb this
Way run a great silk, as them" is no know
ing w .at may take piasse {tom on; moment
to another."
THE! M mzczrs. Asisi/isisissqctq, Asisi-sisisi. 16.
Amcrictxn t).'o.3uce has bc-;n ver)" lusih, int
is now reduced : Hour {si-L'z 03 for 9 ssisisisilmrs
3 bane]. - sister,}: [jZ-ma', .u'uctuctsf 25. 3315
35 plenty at this piace ; but at cannot (90
tinuc long, the heavy z'alzzs lasiefy ftd'v'f-"us
baﬄsizsii the h')p:5 oisi mctkiug mare ths, sssifct
son. St. T/sswnms, Air;. 19. .}H'ifs 1:5
now 14 donars ;! barrel , no back css-r {) lssrl
At market. Csszssfsse 1*r.'msi0:':, xi.-15. '1-5.
Mctrkets dull, lunzbcr 25 to ZOdOMS. tx—siis
4 to 7, bees 14, ;sin rk 13 to 30.
Extract afct [n'lsrsi- rom aJ-ounct; gr/zct'lfmnf:
of: board lzsv si'x'juauer Luterfr/zctss, tosssffs
parent: in A'e-ctw Hamsizsctfizre, Judas La
a'1z, jub- 16, lSoz.
" All our stigazes are cmp
voying vessels up and doassm (!
but notwirhstandingghess eXtssi-mc vzgsifct
lance, OLH savage enemy hsivc (ctkin am):
beXOttging to Phiiad-silyh il- ' .lsin May "?
fvad an engagezncnt with a l.r:f,=olgan zUﬂss
boat osqo smn and 4 guns --_1t be'mg, 6- Pﬄ'
" " " '. 22
she go: away is:.m &, on.; the nctssrc o )!
loyedjn con
It: Streigh s;