ALEXANDRIA GAZETTE.!
--- j
SATURDAY MORNING. Ni 'Y’i: 22. 184".
MR. VAN BUREN’S FARM—AVo lately
parsed a beautiful summ-T's day in the vicinity ot
Kindcrhook. Among other places of interest we
visited •Lindenwahl.” the scat of tx-president
Van Buren.
\Vc foiind Mr. V an Rurcn at home, and accom
panied him in a walk over H e farm. When he
entered on tlie occupancy of his place, on his re
tirement from the Presidency, it was much out of j
order, the land having been rented for twen’y
years, and been under cultivation for the period
of 160 years. Several of the buildings had be* j
come poor, the fences were old and rotting down,:
and bushes and grass of wild growth had taken
possession of the farm. During the short time }
it has been under Mr. Van Buren’s management,
the place has been greatly improved; and a course |
is now fairly begun by which a handsome income^
may be derived from it. The garden and pleasure I
grounds have been enlarged and newly laid out |
_hot houses have been erected—and a large
number of fruit and ornamental trees, shrubs—,
bery.&c. have been planted. Ths greenhouse;
contains a collection of exotic fruits and plants,:
among which were some fine grapes. In the gar- I
den we noticed some fine samples of all the fruits 1
of the season.
Among the objects which gave beauty and in- j
terest to the grounds, are two artificial oonds in
the garden. They were easily made by construct- i
ing dams across a little brook originating from;
springs on the premises. Soon after they were
made (three years ago,) some fish were put into
them, and they are now so well stocked w ith
trout, pickerel, and perch, that Mr. Van Buren
assured us they w ill afford an abundant supply
for his table. This is a matter well worthy of;
consideration. There are many situations where
such ponds may be made, and with very trifling
expense the luxury of catching and eating a fine ;
trout or pickerel, may he had at any time.
Several of the fields have been enclosed with
new fences, and several buildings erected, among
which is a very tasty farm house, an 1 a barn cal-j
culated for storing 151) tons of hay after being j
pressed.
mil pernaps me mr.si irnpnriam improvements i
which have taken place on the farm, have been
made on a tract of bog land, thirteen acres ol I
which have been thoroughly reclaimed, and are
covered with luxuriant crops of grass or oats.— !
Three years ago, this land was worthies?. It!
was first drained by ditches; the stumps and bu^h- j
es were then cut down and burned, and the ashes j
spread on the land. It was afterwards sown in !
grass, u?ing a mixture of timothy and redtop !
seed—3 pecks to the acre. The cost of reclaim
ing was £38 per acre, and the land will now pay
the interest of a hundred to a hundred and fifty j
dollars per acre. In this Mr. Van Buren has i
set a good example, which we hope will be fol- ,
lowed by other farmers in the neighborhood
who have lands similarly situated.
The potato crop is one of considerable conse- ]
quence on his farm as well as on others, in the vi
cinity. Mr. Van Buren raises the variety called
the Carter's, produced from the ball a few years
ago by the shakers, lie considers these by far
the most pr« filable kind known. Mr. Van Bu
ren assures us that all which could be raided
would readily command fifty cents a bushel by
the quantity in New York city.
All the crops appear to be well managed.—
Leached a>hes were tried last season with ex
cellent success. Great benefit has also been de
rived from ploughingin clover.
Mr Van Buren keeps but little stock, a con
siderable object being the sale of hay. The man
agement of the farm is under the immediate su
pervision of Mr. Van Buren, who finds it a salu
tary exercise for the faculties of mind and body.
In this rural retreat, removed from the cares of
State, and the turmoils of political ways he now
“Drinks the pure pleasures of a rural life.’’
Albany Cultivator.
LIFE OF THE T1UFLEIL—We this instant |
imagined a man retaining all his consciousness
transformed into a swallow, a creature abundant
ly busy, up in the early morning, forever on the
wing, as graceful and sprightly in his flight as j
tasteful in his haunts which he selects. Look at *
him. zizznsrzimr over the clover field, skimtninz i
the limpid lake, whisking round the steeple, or
dancing in the sky. Behold him in his spirits,
shrieking out his ecstacy a* he has bolted a dragon
fly, or darting through the arrow-slits of the old
turret, or performed some other feat of hirundine
agility. And notice how he pays his morning
visits, alighting elegantly on some house top, >
and twittering politely by turns to the swallow 1
on either side of him, and, after five mir.utes’ ■
conversation, off ami away to call to his Iriend ;
at the castle. And now he is gone upon his
travels—gone to spend the winter at Rome, or
Naples; to visit Kgypt or the Holy Land; or per
form some more recherche pilgrimage to Spain,or
the coast of Barbary. And when he comes
home next April, sure enough he has been abroad
—charming climate—highly delighted with the
cicades in Italy, and the bees on Hvmetlus—|
locusts in Africa rather scarce this season—but,I
upon the whole, much pleased with his trip, and
returned in high health ai d spirits.
Now, dear friends, this is a very proper life
fora sw’allow', but is it a life for you? To flit
about from hou«e to house; to pay futile visits,
where, if the talk were written down, it w ould a
tnount to little more than ihe chattering of a swal
low; to bestow all your thoughts on graceful atti
tudes and nimble movements, and polished at
tire; to roam from land to land, with so little in
formation in your head, or so little taste for the
sublime or the beautiful in your soul, that could
a swallow publish his travels, and did you pub
lish yours, we should probably find the one a
counterpart of the other; the winged traveller en
larging on the discomforts of his ntst, and the
wingless one on the mtseriesof his hotel or cha
teau; you describing the places of amusement, or
•nlttMinir An th» n I1 he rnnntrv nmt thp !
i —B----- .7 *
abundance of game, and your rival eloquent on
the selfsame things. Ob! it is a thought not ri
diculous, but appalling. * * * fl hough the
triflerdoes not chronicle his own vain words and
wasted hours, they chronicle themselves. I hey
are noted in the memory of Go L And whenj
once this life of wondrous opportunities and aw-.
ful advantages is over, when the twenty or fifty |
years are fled away; when mortal existence, with
its facilities for personal improvement and ser
viceablenest to others, is gone beyond recall;
when the trifler looks back to the long pilgrimage
with all the doors of usefulness, past which he
skipped in his frisky forgetfulness, what anguish
will it move to think he has gam bo led through j
such a world without salvation to himself, with- j
out any real benefit to his brethren, a busy tri
fler, a vivacious idler, a clever fool.—Life in Ear
nest.
EW BOOKS—FROM H. HOOKER.—A
new edition of Tuppcr's Proverbial Philoso
phy, neatly bound in cloth, price only 50 cents;
also, the octavo edition, on fine paper and large
type, at $1—late price $1,25. This is the
only authorised edition of this celebrated work.
FROM LEA & BLANCHARD — Urinary l)e
posites, their Diagnosis, Pathology*, and I l»era
peuticul indications, by Golding Biro, A. M., M.
I) , Assistant Physician to, and Lecturer on Ma
teria Mediea, at Guy's Hospital—oue volume oc
tavo, price $1,50.
The Chemistry of Man, by Dr. J. Franz Simon,
Fellow of the Society for the Advancement ol
Physiological Chemistry at Berlin, &c., transla
ted by Thomas E Day, M. A. ami L. M. Cantab.
Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians,
to be completed in two parts. Part 1 just pub
lished, price $1,50.
7he Jhtitiican Electro-Magnetic Telegraph, with
the Reperts of Congress, and a description of all
Telegraphs known, employ ing Electricity or Gal
venisflB, illustrated by 81 wood engravings, by
Aaron Vail, Assistant Superintendent of the E
leclric Magnetic Telegraph for the United States,
price 75cents. Just published, and for sale by
nov IS BELL & ENTWISLE.
SANDS’S SARSAPARILLA.—For the Re
moval and Permanent Cure of all Diseases
ari>ing from an Impure State of the Blood oi
Habit oft he System—This valuable Medicine
is now u*e<! and universally approved by the
most distinguished of the Medical I lofe-sion
throughout the country, and by its intrinsic med
ical value, the public generally (but the afflicted
particularly have been marie acquainted wit.i it''
usefulness, in the removal and cure ol diseases
having their origin in an impure state o ie
blood. The Sarsaparilla is combined with other
ingredients, all of which are held in the highest
estimation by the most distinguished physicians
for the removal and permanent cure ol the lol
lowing and similar maladies; . .
As a mild aperient, antiseptic and tonic, it
contains the three most useful properties ol
medicine. It purges, purifies and restores —
Scrofula, Cancer, Leprosy, all Ulcers and .Scrof
ulous Sores, all Diseases of the Skin, and all in
ternal disorders not organic, but springing from
a diseased circulation, give way btdoic its h\ge
ian influenc*.
The following certificate exemplifrs, in a
most remarkable manner, the great medical val
ue of the Sarsaparilla in a severe case of Scrof
ula. It speaks a language not to be misun
stood.
New-Bedford, Mass. Feb. 20, lS4o.
Messrs. Sands:—Eight years ago last March,
had what is called the black measles, and the
fact of my blood having been in an impure state
for many years previous, without doubt greatly
aggravated the disorder, and has been the cau>e
of many severe afflictions since; the fir>t of v. hioh
was an inflamation in my head, causing total
blindness for nearly two years and a half, and
at the same time ulcers in my throat that con
tinued to eat until my palate was entirely con
sumed All this time 1 was under the treatment
of physicians without receiving any benefit fiom
them, until through the kindness and skill ol Dr.
Balletic, my sight was restored to me. Still all
my other complaints continued the same, and,
in addition to the ulcers in my throat, sores broke
out on my head and cars, causing deafness, atten
ded with a severe cough and ili:l*cu!ty of breath
ing, hoarseness, &c.—My sufferings for more
than two years were almost insupportable, and
at length, by the advice of Dr. Ford, I was indu
ced to ry IJouck’i Panacea, the effect of which
was to remove the sores fiom my throat to rnv
shoulders, which began to swell, and on which
formed hard tumors, accompanied with extreme
pain and tenderness. My head and throat soon
grew worse than ever, and my throat wu- so
sore that it was impossible for me to take medi
cine, and my disease continued to rage and in
crease to such a degree that I could no longei
sit up, and for months I was confined to my bed.
The cough still continued, and a kind ol slimy
water ran constantly from my moutn, m> breath
ing also became so difficult that I could be heard
alT over the honse. Soft tumors also formed
upon my head; my tongue and gums s.veiled
and turned white; twelve pieces of my upper
jaw born*, together with six of my teeth, drooped
out at different tunes, and my situation had now
become so dreadful, and my agony so intense,
that all hopes of recovery entirely forso' k me,
and I gave myself up to die. I begged and
prayed that Hod would take me to himself that
l might be relieved from my sufferings. In ad
dition to all the rest, 1 now began to suller from
the effects of hunger, and it was with the great
est difficulty that I could swallow any thing at
all, not even a little arrow root gruel, and this
did but little to satisfy the cravings of hun
ger.
But notwithstanding the great extremity to
w hich I was reduced, it seemed that my life was
to be spared, and for what, is best known to my
Creator. At this time my elbows began to get
sore and swelled very much, and several sores
broke out oo different parts of my arms, which
had the appearance of small biles, and which
when opened, discharged matter that seemed to
poison the parts wherever it touched. 1 had
seven of these sores on one arm. and five on the
other, and at last th y all ran into one on each
arm, and ate into the bone. In the mean time 1
had tried vaiious remedies, but all to no purpose,
as it seemed impossible to stop the ravages ol
mv di-ease. I now became utterly discouraged,
despaired of getting relief, and gave myself up as
incurable. Ab mt this time a paper was thrown
into the house which contained a certificate of
a cure performed in a case similar to my own
hv &mds’s Snrsanarilla. and calling the attention
of one of my friends to it, she said she would buy
me a bottle and see whatelfect it would nave. I
had not taken half of it before I was satisfied that
it would either kill or cure me, as the sensations 1
experienced were so strange and indescribable
that I knew a change either for the better or
worse was coining over me. Before the first bot
tle was entirely used, a fine tetter came out all
over me, and 1 began to feel stronger, and was
sensible it was doing me g< od. 1 have now used
six bottles, and l find myself a new creature.—
The sorts on my arms are healed, and the tumors
on my head have all disappeared: my head has
also resumed its natural hardness, and the diffi
culty ot breathing is in a greatmeasure removed.
When 1 contrast my present situation with
what it was a few months ago, my heart over
flow's with gratitude to my Maker for alibis mer
cies, and 1 feel it is to you that l am indebted, as
the instrument of Divine Providence, for my
safe deliverance from this severe trial, and shall
always pray lint you may be rewarded for your
kindness to me, an utter stranger. I desire tfiat
all similarly afflicted may know there is a balm
for their diseases in your invaluable Sarsapa
rilla. Yours in sincerity,
MARY FULLER, No. 98 North 2d st.
For further particulars and conclusive evidence
of its superior value and efficacy, see pamphlets,
which may he obtained of agents gratis.
Prepared and sold, wholesale and retail, by A.
B. &. D. SANDS, Wholesale Druggists, 79 Ful
ton st:, N Y.
Sold also by W. STABLER & BRO. Alexan
dria; R. Farnham and R. S Patterson, Wash
ington; O. M. Linthiurn Georgetown; and by
Druggists throughout the United States. Price,
$1 per bottle; six bottles for fcif>.
CO* The public are respectfully requested to
f hot it t ^ MM I* I I I tit'it MflQ
I V III V til VV t ' • v iW V. ■« | — —
and is constantly achieving such remarkable
cures of the most difficult class ol diseases to
which the human frame is subject; there fore ask
for Sands’ Sarsaparilla, and take no other.
ju!y 13 ly.
HAXCES SARSAPARILLA, VEGETA
BLE, OR BLOOD FILLS FOR PURI
FYING THE 11LOOD, removing bile, cor
recting disorders of the stomach a yd bowels, ros
tiveness, dyspepsia,swimming in the head, &.e.
Persons of a full habit w ho are subject to Head
ache, Giddiness, Drowsiness, and Singing in
the Ears, arising from too great a flow of blood
to the head, should never be without them, as
many dangerous symptoms will be entirely car
ried ori b\ their immediate use.
As a pleasant, safe, easy aperient, they unite
the recommend, tion of a mild operation with
the most successful effect, and require no re
straint of diet or confinement during their use
By regulating the dose according to the a^e and
strength of the patient, they become suitable for
every case, in either sex, that can be required;
and for elderly people, they will he found to be
the most comfortable medicine hitherto prepared.
For sale by J. R. PiERPOlNT, Agent, corner
of King and Washington streets, Alexandria,
oct 30
POSSOM HALL—BOW LING SALOON—
At the Feny, on the Maryland shore, opposite
Alexandria. This commodious establishment
has been just opened, w ith all the accommoda
tions which gentlemen can require, and is a de
iightful place for recreation and amusement. A
passage to and from the saloon will be ten cents.
The regulations of the Saloon are such as pre
vail in the best regulated establishments.
Refreshments of all kinds, will be served to
order—and Dinners and Suppers prepared as
they may be called for.
je 24—eo6m JOSEPH FOX.
BACON, Lard, Smoked Beef, &c., of prime i
quality, for sale by
DOT 13 . B. F. WILLIS.
*
Dr. Upham’s Vegetable Electuary.
A certain Cure for the Piles,
a> Although the Electuary was originally prepared
for the cure of Piles, yet from its modus operandi, or
mode of operating, and from extensive personal applica
tion, it has proved itself to he a Medicine far superior to
all others, in all Diseases of an Inflammatory character,
with a determination of blood to any particular part or
organ. In Inflammation and Congestion of the Liver and
Spleen; Inflammation, Soreness and Ulceration ot the
Stomach, Bom Is, Kidneys and Bladder; in Inflammatory
and Mercurial Rheumatism, and all Affections arising iroili
the imprudent or injudicious use of Mercury ; in all cases
where the Blood is powerfully determined towards the
Head, it is the best Medicine ever discovered, for all
Impurities of the Blood, arising from any source what
ever, and for all Diseases of the Shin, it is unrivalled,
clearing and improving it in the most remarkable inan
„,*r. In Palpitation of I he Jhart, lain in the Side, and
Oppression about the Chest; in Morbid ami Biliary Con
ditions of the Stomach, producing Sick Head-ache; in
short, in all cases where a Cathartic or Physic is ro
quired, the Electuary will he found fully equal, it not
superior, to any other; and especially to those subject
to Piles, it will prove an invaluable Physic, as it operates
without irritation, which is not the case with most of the
purgatives now in use, particularly Powders or 1 ills
coiit lining Aloes, the use of which will in\aiiablj re
turn the complaint. . ✓
A. rPll.DI, }I.Q. Sole Proprietor, Bowery,
New York. . _
T. W. DYOTT & SONS, General Wholesale
Agents, 134 North Second Street, Phila
delphia,
General Depot at the Book Store ol B. Farn*
ham, Washington City, ami lor sale by Druggists
generally. mar 22— 1 y
A-:'*
'Ptf'a fill MAT AM* ONLY !ir.M”hV for < oM»
| i roughs, As'htim. am! t oNSiTvl’ i'i< >\. is The IP \
».\K1A\ n\!.SAM OF Ul i;. di- •• v-r.-ii ‘-v tr*e rob*
ar hed Pr. Bmhan of !.< rd *n. England, and hero-hue.
■jjto tin; I’ii11»•<! States iiiidcrl.it: inline o.ite > ipennlcnd
in: i* of tin* iii.v**nt*T.
Ti: • oxlraordin try sucres of thh m dirin■*. :n th*
-lire of Pulnmniry diseases, xvarrmt-** Th • \imr*r;ii
Agent iti soliciting tor hemm-nt he WoilsT I’fis
sflH.K CA'M'.S tint can he found in h.e roiMumnity
i <*a3es that seek relief iti vain from any of the coiinuor
i remedies ot the dav« and hav-* n ■ \< r\ up f e
must distInguislied 1’hysit ian* as (' >NJ iFMI,*) A.v i
l.Wl it \BI.H. The liuwgarnn Bubam ): a.-cured, and
wdl cure, the MOST P l.Sl idl ATM <>F i'A'KS. !’. i«
a.» ijn irk n »r *r*1111. hut a stand «rd i.iigusu sii**•.i* in.-*, ot
xtiown and established . dir.icy. *
I’.verv family in tin- I nn* 1 States s!i >frh! be supplied
with But bun's Hungarian Bil>um of 1. •• • not nlv to
counter it t the t .uisumptive teiidem'i»v *>* tie* • Innate
but to be us ti as a ;.rev»*inive nedii me in aM r iss o .
(A ids, Coughs. Spitting of Blood. Pam in th** >ni.* am:
Chest. Irritation and Soreness of the I w:.*-, Bronchitis
' Difficulty of Breathing. Hectic Fever, Aithf .-weals
i'jUiu- iaii n titnl Ceiiera! Dui'ilitv ^stlim-i, InLueni'.ii
iloouijig Cough. and Croup.
D> Sold in large bottles, at •?*! p»*i i>ui (»'.« »A U h full direc
tions for lli*' restoration ot Health.
Pamphlets, containing a mass t,f Enirin’i ami Amcrt
■*3*1 r**rtideates, ami *»!li*’r evidence, h’K'i* ;,»g the un
eopiailed merits of this Croat F.mdhdi Remedy, may l*
jhtained of th** \getits, gratuitously.
11 v v11) 1-' BK APBFM, sttie Agent tor the LRlted
. States, 111) rouvt ^troot. Uoston.
T. W. DVOTT ^ SONS, (lc:i T il Wholesale Agent*.
No. 132 Norlli Sucond street. IMnladeloiii-i.
General Depot at the Book Stoic of R. Fain
ham, Washington City, and for sale by Druggists
generally. nov 5—ly
MARSH'S SUPERIOR PATENT
i TRUSS
I
I
I
I
I
!
MARSH’S PATENT TRUSSE
proved do., for sale at
| oct 11 J. R. PIERPOJNT’S Drug Store.
BRISTOL’S SARSAPAR1LL \.—Evidence
of Regular Physicians — From t'i? entire JLdi
cal Faculty of Buffalo. We are acquainted with
| the preparation of Sarsaparilla, maiiu!a» lured by
C. G. Bristol, and have made use of it more or
i less in our practice, believing it to contain the
; active principle?? of Sarsaparilla, in a highly con
i crentrated form; and as a preparation, we esteem
it the best w# have ever met with.
■ J. Trowbridge, M.D. Charles \\ inne, M. D.
Josiah Barnes, M. L>. J. lb Hawley, M. D.
A. Miller, M. 1)* Cyrenius Chapin, M. f).
Moses Bristol, M. D. J. Ib Marshall, M. D.
I A S. Sprague, M. D. F. E. Harris. M. 1).
fl I) L'l_ I \
1 I . IV. OiilUH, 1H. 1 /.
For sale by T. W. DYOTT& SONS No 132
j North Second Street, the authorized general A
gentsforthc Southern and Middle States.
General Depot at the Book Store ol It. Farn
: ham, W ashington city, and for Sait* hy Druggists
generally. may 8
■
FELLOW CITIZENS!
We
arc bound to
believe from the very
circumstance, that all who take
Dr. Swayne’s Compound Syrup of Wild
I Cherry, do say, that it far excels all other me
; dieines forcoughs, colds, spittingol blood, tickling
or rising sensation in the.throat, bronchitis,
whooping cough, asthma, weakness of
the nervous system, or impaired
constitution, from any cau*e,
and to prevent persons
from falling into a
decline, tins me
dicine has no
EQUAL*
In districts where Calomel and Quinine has
been too freely tis^d in Bilious Complaints, &.c.,
Dr. Swaync’s Compound Syrup of Wild Cherry
will prevent thcirefiects on the system, act as a
strengthening alternative, and improve the Bil
ious functions.
CAUTION.—All preparations from this valu
able tree, except the original Dr.Swayne’s Com
pound Syrup of Wild Cherry are. fictitious and
counterfeit. Pro pa red by Dr. Swayne, N. W.
corner of Eighth and Bare streets, Philadelphia.
For sale only hy Wm, Stabler, Alexandria.
G. M. Sothorox, Georgetown.
Ivobt. Farxham, Washington.
John Hand, Point of Rocks,
[nov 2—ly] Rev. J. P. Cook, 52 >i si Bait
OSBORNE’S superior American Water Col
ors, for sale by H. PEEL &. CO ,
nov 15 King-street.
pLOVER AND TIMOTHY SEED-150
\_y bushels Clover Seed; 25 bushels Timothy
Seed; now receiving and for sale bv
nov 11 B. WHEAT 5c SONS.
#
Life insurance—national loanj
FUND LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
OF LON DON—Capit al - $2 500,000—Empnw
1 ered In, Ml of Parliament.— This Institution otlers !
many important advantages, buth with respect to
Life Insurance, and .Is system of Annuities, iro
mediate and deferred. .
Insurance may be effected by persons on their j
own lives or the lives of others, for the whole
term of life or for limited periods: and the socie- ,
I |v bcm<” formed on the mutual and joint stock 1
principle, parties are enabled to participate in the
profits of the society, while their polices are
cuarrante. d nnt only by the constant accumula
! fion of premiums, but by a subscribed capital of
: two and a half millions of dollars. |
i The premiums may be paid yearly, ball yearly,
lor quarterly, and parties insuring for the whole
term of life are allowed to borrow two thirds of all}
! premiums paid after the first year.
For the character and responsibility of the In- ;
slitution, the Agent refers in ....... !
Boston— Hon. Abbott Lawrence—and William ;
Appleton, Esq. , .
.Veto York—Jacob Harvey. Lcq., John J. I al
mcr, E*q., Jonathan Goodhue, Esq., James Boor-1
jman, Esq , George Barclay, Esq-, s* j
; Howland, E«q., Gorham A. Worth, E>q., bam
ucl M Fox, Esq.
j Philadelphia—Clement C. Biddle, Esq., Sears
C. Walker, E>q.. Louis A. Godey, Esq., George |
Rpx Graham. Esq. I
Pamphlets containing tables of rates and all
* nero*«ary information, may be obtained on ap-;
plication to JAMES MeKENZIE, Agent.
John Richards, M. D , Physician.
oct —ly _|
/CAPITAL, $300.000.—The New-York Con
! VJ trihutionsbip *Firc Insurance Company, of
> fire,* No. 57, Wall street, insure Buildings in
general. Merchandise, Household Furniture, and I
' every description of personal property, a.ainstj
loss or damage by fire; also, against hazards of
inland transportation.
J. SMYTII ROGERS, President.
II. W. Martin, Secretary.
1 \__ „ 1 n nirorc I'tml'S Mr.
YJ i i% r-v. i v u s- —
Bride, John Adams, John Haggerty, Gillian C. |
\ erplam k, John Johnston, Joseph Kernochan,
1 Joseph Stuart, John I. Palmer, Henry Parish, j
Reuben Withers, William Scott, Ferdinand Suy
dam, Peter I. Nevius, Wm. Leggat, Richard;
Irvin, K. D. Hurl hut, George P. Pollen, William j
| Colgate, Lowell Holbrook, Caleb Barstovv,! bos. j
F. Norris, Robert Colgate.
The undersigned. Agent for Alexandria, is pre-1
pared to issue policies for the above office.
JAMES McKENZIE, Agent,
oct 25—ly ___'
mHH CROTON (MUTUAL) INSURANCE
1. COMPANY, Office Xo. IS Wall sheet,in
the city of Xtw York—This Company insures
Marine, Inland Navigation, Transportation, and
Fire Risks. By its charter the profits are to he
paid back to the assured, in proportion to the
amotrnt of Premiums paid by them respectively.
The rnt<’s an(i terms of Insurance will be modcr- j
ate ami liberal, and tiie assured subject to no ;
responsibility.
Samuel A. Lawrence, President.,
Joseph B. Norris, Vice President. ,
N. Carroll, Secretary. I
For terms of Insurance, application may be
> made to the undersigned, agent for the above
I Company, with authority to issue policies
j je 19—ly W. II. MARBURY.
17 B ESI I ARRIVALS OF FALL and WIN
| I TER DRY GOODS.—SMITH Sc CLARK
have just received, and are now opening at the
old stand, formerly occupied by O. M. & F.
Taylor, on the corner of King and Pitt streets,
opposite Newton's Hotel, a large and well selec- j
ted stock of FALL AND W INTER DRY j
j GOODS, viz:
FOR G FX T L EM EX'S WEAR, we have
! Super, black French CLOTHS
“ blue black “ “
Black, blue black, and invisible greens
I Olive, green, brown and blue do
* Black, blue black, and fancy CASSIMERES
i Tweed Cloths and Cassimeres
Super Silk, Satin, Cashmere and common VES. !
TINGS
SCARFS, Shirt Bosoms and Collars
i Silk and Linen HANDKERCHIEFS
1 FOR LA DIES—We have
i > r • • £ % I l _
, jNiper. v.nsn ue l'jiii, uu vyjso tie v>os»e
Mou^lin de Lain, common and good
Black and blue black Silk warp ALPACCAS
.Mode and fancy colored do
Indian Cashmere, a new article for Ladies
Super, plain and fancy Plaid Cloth, for Ladies
and children’s Cloaks and Dresses
Fancy Plaid- for children’s Dresses
Misses and children's fancy worsted Caps
IX $11.11! LS— lie have
! Super. Cashmere and Embroidered Thibet
New style French Cash, do [Lane do ‘
Brocade, Wool, Plaid, Plain, and fancy Alous de
roa $i:i: j\ i\ rs— We have
j Heavy Pilot and other Cloths, Kentucky Jeans
Ca-'inett'i, Kerseys, Linseys, Dorn. Plaids
(Knaburgs, Cotton and Wool Flannels—ALSO,;
| A hue a-sortment of Calicoes, Checks, Tickings, i
Bb ached and brown Cottons, Gloves, and llosie- j
ry of every description
Servants and Saddle Blankets
S. Sc C , respectfully invite their friends, and
the public generally, to call and examine their
stock of Goods, before purchasing elsewhere, as j
they are determined to sell at the lowest cash
j priCes. [oct 8—tf] SMITH & CLARK.
! mATORE NEW BOOKS—FROM HARPER
J* J &. BROTHER.—.Morse's Cerogmphic Maps
No. 3. containing Maps of Pennsylvania, Califor
nia, Illinois, arid North Carolina, price 25 ccnis. j
Illuminati(l and Ticloiiul Bible, No. 42, price 25 j
cenD, containing a portion of the Gospel of St.
Matthew. No. 3 of the illuminated edition of
the Wandering Jew, price 25 cents. The *1uthm's j
Daughter, a tale by Alary Howitt, 12, cents —
.Imaury, translated from the French of Alexan- t
-I ! L 1 ttv oa •) \ omlc /mI/'II/'Z/OU)//I/» Dot)) rtflC
. MS < < • I ■ ' . ^ | ^ • «... ^. --
Fconnmu, comprising such subjects as are most
immediately connected with Housekeeping, as
the construction of domestic edifices, with the
modes of warming, ventilating, &.c.; an account
’ of the different substances used as food; the art
of Cocking, making bread; preservation of health;
domestic medicines, See; by Thomas Webster;
V. R. S , assisted by the late Mrs. Parkes, au
thor of “Domestic Duties” with notes and iin
provemcnU by Dr. Meredith Reese, A. M , M.
j ). —an octavo volume of 1238 pages; illustrated
bv nearly 1000 engravings; full sheep, $3,75.
~FR()\1 APPLETON' 6c CO-—The Hear o/j
JJukfefd, a new and beautiful edition, full bound j
in fancy cloth, 75 cts. The life of Frederick Schil
,Vr, comprehending an ex iinmalion of his works,
hv Thomas Carlvie, author of “French Itevolu- i
«/ * %
tion,” a new edition, revised by the author, price
in paper. 50 cts., in cloth, 75 cts. Also, newedi
tion>of Frost’s Rook ol the Indians, price $1;
BLhop V\ ilsnr.’s Sacra Privata, $1; Burns’s Poel
ical Works $1,25; Scott’s Poetical Works, $1,
25; and a further supply of Cany's Dante, $ 1,50.
FROM PAINE 6c BURGESS.—Prairiedom,
or Rambles ami Sketches in Texas or New Es
tremadura, by a Southron, with a map of Texas,
Mexico, and California, price G2^ cts. The Ar
tist, the Jit reliant, and the Statesman, of the Age of
the Meuici and of our own times, by C. Edwards
Lester, author of Glory and Shame ol England,
to be completed in two volumes. Volume first,
price 75 cts. Just published and for sale by
nov 13 BELL & ENTWISLE.
ENGLISH lllUSTAftD-A fresh supply ol
best English Mu-tard, received and lor sale
at [nov 17J HENRY COOK’S Drug Store.
Jy LAXSEED AND Will IE BEANS wanted
JL in iaige or small lots, and highest price given t
by B. F. WILL IS,
nov 14 opposite the market
rjiOOTIl BRUSHES AND FLESH BRUSII
X ES of superior quality, just received and i
for saL bv
1 Ifi»o 14 WM. STABLER & CO. i
• ii | NLS 1 d of iron and wood bound ware, re
/■wv" ccived and for sale by THOS. BCRX$, 1
cornerof Prince and Fairfax sts. no? 14
\
New dry goods-m c. m tf f. my- j
LOR'S.—We are now receiving a full and ,
comprehensive stock of Fall and Winter DRY
GOODS, which we shall offer to our cusl0"?*.
and friends, upon such terms, as to msure their
salisfaction. We invite the dealing pubhc to an
early examination ol ouft(s^ot:,t’ .lvhfCth.» lowest1
unusually large, and will be sold at the lowest.
cash prices __.
To the LADIES we will present very great
attractions in the way of fancy and dress goods,
such as fancy Silks, Cashmeres, Mouse lint.
Cloakings, Shawls, &c. &c., kc. Much attention
having been paid to a selection of the latest
styles and fashions.
For GENTLEMEN'S WEAR we have made
very heavy purchases, and in Cloths, Cassimeres,
and Vestings at greatly reduced prices. We
have a fine assortment of Scarfs,Cravats, Gloves,
Colors, Bosoms, kc.. &c.
For FARMER'S, we have in servant’s wear a
number of bales of Linaeys, Kerseys, and full
Cloths—also, Jeans, and Negro Blankets, &c.,
kc. Being the agents of manufacturers we shall
sell at their prices.
In HOUSE-KEEPING MATERIALS, we
shall have a full assortment, viz. Curtains, Sheet
jng, Table Linens, Diapers, Counterpanes Blan
kets, &c. kc. Also, a full assortment of Carpet
ings’Oil-Cloths, Floor-Baizes, Rugs, &c.
OUR STOCK is too large to descend into par
ticulars—enough to say it comprises every de
scription of Goods kept in our line, a large pro
portion of which was bought either from the
manufacturers or in first hands. V\e repeat our
invitation to the entire dealing community, to an
early examination of our stor k, and to those w ho
are as yet merely looking, we say give ours a
fair comparison with either those of the neigh*
boring cities, or the competitors in our own, and
we have no doubts of the continued liberal pa
tronage of the public* 55—_
ALLEBASI’S MEDICINES -The above me
dicines having been thoroughly tested and
become highly popular throughout the greater
part of our own, and to a considerable extent in
other countries, are now offered to the citizens
of Alexandria, with entire confidence; and the
Proprietor solicits for them a trial, for which pur
pose an extra supply is furnished to each agent.
To accommodate all, a number of Agents have
been enlisted, furnished with the—
BLACK (or ALLEBASPS) SALVE;
ALLEBASPS HEALTH PILLS;
ALLEBASPS TOOTH ACHE DROPS;
ALLEBASPS POOR MAN’S PLASTER, &
ALLEBASPS INDIA RUBBER BACK
PLASTER. „ tl
Each Agent i* also furnished with Pamphlets
for general distribution, setting forth the uses of
the medicines, and containing testimonials from
highly respectable persons, to their value.
£Cj*Thc Medicines are prepared by LYMAN ;
W. GILBERT, Proprietor, 214 Fulton street, |
New York, and for sale by Henry Cook, (General ;
Wholesale and Retail Agent,) J. R. Pierpoint, j
and J. J. Snyrs, Druggists, and by Jos. Grimes,
Carter Dorsey, E. G. Compton, A. II. Dowell, j
and S. Horwell. Alexandria, D. C. [nov23—ly j
DR.~SWAYNES COMPOUND SYRUP
OF WILD CHERRY.—The great Rem
edy for Consumption, Colds, Coughs, Spitting of
Blood, Bronchitis, Difficulty of Breathing, Asth
ma, Pain in the Side and Breast, Whooping
Cough, Croup, and all diseases of the Liver and ,
Lungs, Broken Constitution, &c. 'I he above is j
the original and only genuine preparation Irom ;
this valuable tree, and has won its way to pub
lic favor by its unparalleled success in curing all
diseases of the Lungs, notwithstanding the many ;
articles prepared by persons who have no know!- j
edge of the science of medicine in theory or j
practice, and some more ready to deceive the un- |
suspecting use a part of the name of the original
preparation; such as, “Balsam of Wild Cherry,” ;
“Phoenix Balsam of Wild Cherry.” “Balsam of i
Wild Cherry and Camfry,” &c., all sprung up j
with a mercenary view, after “Dr. Swayne’s !
Compound Syrup of Wild Cherry” had won a
reputation in the “healing art” never to be for
gotten by many a once cheerless fireside There
fore the public should be on their guard and pur
chase none but the original preparation, which i
is daily performing such astonishing cures in
Pulmonary Complaints, after all other remedies
had failed and the patients given up as hopeless, j
rii 1 1 _ _ C m 1 I\ f kn r\(tkl i ^ k Ct (i
I ll<.Mj3dilU3 Ul V./CI l llll/U IC3 -
which would astonish credulity itself, but it i9 '
deemed unnecessary; below we publish a few of;
the names of persons who have been cured by j
this “wonderful remedy.”
Mrs. Brown, corner of Second street and !
Germantown road, Philadelphia, effectually cur- j
ed of diseased Lungs and the symptoms of in
cipient Consumption, by using four bottles of Dr. i
Swayrie’s Compound Syrup of Wild Cherry.
Abraham Skinner, Crawford county. Pa., j
cured ofa protracted cough, pain in the side and
bicast &c., after being reduced to a mere skel
eton.
James Osbourn, Washington, Pa., cured of
Consumption and Bleeding of the Lungs, after
being given up by several eminent Physicians,
and having used most of the Patent Medicines.
This medicine in all cases gives immediate re
lief, and is a safe, pleasant and effectual remedy,
and worthy a trial from the most sceptical.
;CjP'Pi’PPared only by Dr. SWAYNE, N. W. ;
corner of EIGHTH anil RACE streets, Phila
delphia, where all orders mti^l be addressed.
The public are respectfully requested to re
member that this is the only preparation which
contains the virtues of the Wild Cherrt in its
most concentrated form, and being prepared by
the celebrated Dr Svvayne of Philadelphia, every j
confidence may be placed in it as a superior ar
ticle.
Onlv JJgmts in Alexandria for the genuine ar
ticle are WM. STABLER & BRO., R. Earn-;
ham, Washington, G. M. Sothoron, Georgetown. ,
oct 1—ly |
ri TOBACCO AND SEGARS.—The subscriber
X would respectfully call the attention of
dealers to his assortment of TOBACCO AX/)
SEGARS—the former well-selected, and the
latter of his own manufacture, and warranted!
equal to any imported segars to be found in this
market, viz:—
Canona Segars, extra fine
Ladies’Segars, do. do.
Cuba Segars do. do.
Ilalf-Spanish Segars, very superior
Superior Segars, very low price, and Alexan i
dria Segars, good and cheap; that unrivalled;
IlOXEY DEW POUXD LUMP TOBACCO, I
and down to common pound lump as low as 12$
cents per Jb.; and small lump as low as 8 cents -
per pound. All for sale on pleasing terms. Call, *
prove and judge for yourselves.
CIIAS. P. SHAW, j
South side of Prince between Water and Union*!
streets. ap 1G—tf
___'_i
rjMN AND COPPER WO : K.—Thesubscri
X her intending conducting his business again,
is thankful to his friends and the public for
past favors, and solicits a lurther continu
ance of the same. Having, at much expense,
enlarged his factory, is now prepared to execute j
with neatness and de-patch, all orders in his line I
ol business such as Tin and Copper Roofing, and !
Spooling; Lead Pipes to milk houses and other
purpose s, &c. He has on hand a general |
and well selected assortment of tin and copper
Ware, which he offers at wholesale ami retail,at j
'he lowest possible rates. Country Merchants
will call and examine for themselvi*3, both Price
and Ware
P. S. All work shall be ready to deliver, when j
promised, without fail. The highest price given
for old Metal of all kinds. i
NATHAN KELL, near the corner
jy 1—tf of King and Washington sts#
YjmNES.—2 pipes j
* V 9 half do !
23 qr. casks Madeira and Pori
8 $qr. do j
40 1 doz ca«es J
nev 3 POWELL & MARBURV.
\ IR CUSHIONS, an excellent article for!
jiV. emaciated sick persons, just received and
for sale by
llth nn> 12 WM. STABLER & BRO. ‘
AUCTION SALES.
TRUSTEE’S SALE Of,
the authority of a deed bf tfim, executed
pressed, I will offer for sale by publicVjjctioiiV?i
Brentsville,'on Wednesday, the 26M dayofXcun&tr
next, between the hours of 12 o'clock, M, and 4 0’
clock, P M., the TRACT OF MX!) in the said
deed mentioned, containing one thousand and se
venty-one acres, of w hich about 400 are np^
and prepared for cultivation, and the remainder
is in wood and timber.
The soil is well adapted to the culture of
wheat, corn, and oats, and especially to the
growth of clover and timothy. This land is
situated that it may be conveniently divided into
two farms, as may be seen by a plat thereof which
will be exhibited on the day of sale. It is fi?e
miles distant from Brentsville, the seat r.f justice
in Prince William County—from the flourishing
town of Warrcnton, in Fauquier County, fifteen*
and from Alexandria and Washington, in the
District of Columbia, about thirty-five miles.
The title is unquestionable, and will be per
fected on the payment of the last instalment 0f
the purchase money; selling as Trustee, I Wj||
convey that titles which is vested in me by the
deed under w hich the sale is made.
Terms of the sale are, one-third of the pur.
chase money w ill be required in hand, and the
balance in equal instalment*, at six, twelve, and
eighteen months from the day ot sale; and f r
the deferred payments, bonds, w ith approved se
curity w ill be required.
oct 23—ts DANIEL MINOR, Trustee.
BY GEORGE WHITE.
SALE OF REAL ESTATE.—In p«ir«uanre
of a decree of the Circuit Court of the Di-tri.t
of Columbia, for Alexandria County, rendered at
May Term, 1845, in a certain suit in ('barmen,
in which Dennis Johnston, giiardhn of the
font children ot Lincoln Chamheiluin, der'd.h
complainant, and Joseph Harris, ct. :.l, are «!e.
fendants, I will offer for sale by am tion. nt J*>
o'clock, M., on Monday the 24//* day of X< vms
btr, 1845, the follow ing desirable property, viz;
|. A lot of ground on the west side of Water
street, between rnnee and Uuke streets, *2? M
M front, and 123 feet 5 inches deep, on which
there is a comfortable brick dwelling.
2. A lot of ground on the south side <>i purr*,
to the eastward of Union street, 30 feet lr. it
and 34 feet 6 inches deep, to a 20 feet paved A
^ley. This lot is covered by a spacing
brick warehouse, now occupied by ('aptaih
Fendall, as a Grocery arid Ship Chandler*
house.
3- A lot of ground on the cast side of Water,
and north side of Franklin street, at their inhr*
section S3 feet inches on Water, and 125 on
Franklin, backing on a street 50 feet wide.
The sale of Nos. 1, and 2, will take p!;irc h
front of the respective lots; and that of No. 3 in
front of No. 2.
The terms of sale are prescribed by the decree
and are as follows: One third of the purrh.ise
money to be paid in ca*h, and the residue in
equal instalments at six, twelve, and • igl*l#en
months from the day of sale, with inter* si; tie
purchaser or purchasers giving hi* or I heir note*,
with approved endorsers, for the d#*f« ired pay
ments; and the title to be retained until tin y are
made. The property to be refold in ten day*af.
ter the sale, at the expense of any purrlnscr cr
purchasers who shall fail, within that time, tj
comply with these terms.
R. JOHNSTON, Trustee
nov 3—2aw’ts and Cnmmi«si<wr
TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN -
Tliere is nothing like the peculiarity in th*»
cut of coats to elevate or depress the character
of the wearer. The peculiarity distinguishable i"
Liquors.—co bbu om wi.i-u. y
1 pipe Hourglass Holland Gin
• 2 “ Imitation do
2l) bbls Rose Country Gin
2 half pipes •* J. J. Dupuey ’’ French
15 bbls Domestic Brandy
JO “ Apple do *
] hi,il Jamaica Rum
2 kegs London Wine flitters, of a;T
qualities, for sale on accommodating teni,'
nov 3 POWELL & WARM *'
YfOllE SHOES AN1) ROOT.S-IWJ' :
ivl prime thick and Kip Brogans
1000 “ u Boys and \outl,s
500 “ WTos Grain Boots
120 “ Gents. Fine Calf B *"U
500 “ Wos. Grain and Call Busk »
10t) “ Misses Kid l ies
500 u W os. Leather Run*Ru’*1'0
100 u Wos. Gaiter Roots
230 “ Wos. Goat Budkins
*200 “ WTos. patent Call Slips & >•
100 “ Misses Morocco Bu-kifl*
500 “ u I^ice Pegg’d \V«lts&**l<*
This day landing from brigs Mo/, ut,^
Franklin from Boston, and for sale at o-J m
low prices. , f>., I
nov 4 McVEIGH & 1 I
Cl HEW ING TOBACCO —The sob* I
J have received an additional I'1' I
cellent Chewing Tobacco, ol lh‘* »' "M
Lily of Virginia, Ambro-b, and ( ongre-* ■
For sale to the trade at rnanulartun i s } • X
T. M. McCORMICK M
nov 13 Theatre l" fj
TRI00PHBR008—The wWrib* r f i|
ceived a s.nall supply of Tricop^roi,- 11
is highly recommended for the |)reve| If
baldness and gray hair, and also to 'e S3
hair tbot has fallen otf or become t*1 • Ml
cure effectually scurf or dandruff, rr,ce' ' HI
per botlte. HEN RY COOK. (;hc,";‘*'■!
nov 13 Druggist, King if* A 'v | |
Ambrosial shaving soai1-^ 11
Ambrosial Shaving Soap, f*re^.'/MX
squares for persons who prefer Rll
shaving. This soap is exactly made o.i MX
principles, and nearly of the same ..MX
the celebrated Ambrosial Cream of :1m9
inventor and manufacturer. For PS
RY COOK, Chemist and Druggie K ;, 11
exandria. 19
LARD—600 lbs new, just reee««f F|
sale by [nov ll) I'HOMAS j