American Matcftman atm Beiatoare Qfatotteer.
PUBLISHED OJV TUESDAYS AND FRIDAYS,
BY ALBERT & HENRY WILSON, ,VO.
105, MARKET STREET, WILMINGTON, DEL.
NO. 345 .
WILMINGTON, TUESDAY, 10 MAY, 1825.
VOL. IV.
CONDITIONS OF THE WATCHMAN. |
The terms are, to thuse who pay, daring the month of
January or July, six months in advance—Feur Dollars a
year. From those » ho do not pay as above, Five Hollars
*ill be demanded. If a subscriber wishes to decline, he f
must notify the editors of his intention before the first of
Z,.e or December, and pay all arrearages. Will.. a !
f°ued except* at IteSuBSfÄrfjSÄ" ^ d ™° R '
tmued except at me option me editors.
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
Advertisements not exceeding twelve lines, for a term
less than three months; four times for one dollar, and twen
ty cents for every stibsetiuent insertion: longer onesin pro- J
Advertising by the year.
To Non-Subscribers.
1 year
6 months
3 do.
To Subscribers.
1 year
6 months
3 do.
15, 00
8 , 00
4, 50
18, 00
9, 50
5, 00
;
DONE AT THE
I
Wilmington & Philadelphia
PACKET.
'Sloop INDUSTRY, Capt. Scour.
T HE subscribers having entered into partnership in the
bus ness of the Sloop Industry, request a continuance
ol die custom of their friends and the public generally.
Days of running for the season.
Leave Philadelphia.
Leave Wilmington,
In May,
In June,
In July,
In August,
Tuesday & Friday.
Wednesday & Saturday.
Monday St Thursday.
Tuesday & Friday.
Wednesday 8t Saturday
Monday St Thursday
Tuesday St Friday.
Wednesday 8t Saturday.
Sunday 8t Thursday.
Tuesday 8t Friday.
Wednesday St Saturday.
Sunday & Thursday.
In September,
Tuesday St Friday.
In October,
Wednesday Sc Saturday.
lit November,
Sunday St Thursday.
In December,
Tuesday St Friday.
JOSEPH ROBINSON.
AUGUSTUS SCOUT.
43—9t
Wilmington, May 2 1825
al
SHERIFFS SALE.
By PLIER B. DELANY, Sheriff.
B Y virtue of a writ of lev facias to me directed, will be
■ xposed to public sale, at the house of Con Mac
If. uny, (opposite the premises,) ill Christiana hundred,on
Vjiui-iat tlte fourteenth of May next, at 2 o'clock, P. M ,
ail that certain lot or piece or parcel of land, situate, lying
anil being in Brandy w me hundred and county of Newcastle,
bounded and described as follows, to wit : beginning at a
corner marked hickory of other land conveyed by E. !.
Dopnnt & w fe to Peter Bandny, thence down the Brandy
Wme, -omit, to a corner of a small lot of laud ol E I. Du
pont firinc-rlv of McLune and Milligan, thence with the
thereof south, to a corner marked white oak, thence
he side ot Brandywine creek, thence down tin
sanl creek, the several courses thereof, 10 acorner marked
black oak, of this land and land of Caleb Kirk, thence by
Ins land, north, several courses, to a cot tier stone of the
alttresatd lot of E. I Dupont, conveyed to the said Peter
ltaudny, thence with tlte line thereof to the place of be
Ruining; containing by computation, ten acres, one quarter
ami seventeen perches of land, be 'he same more or less.
And als", all that other p ece or parcel of land situate,
hing and being in tlte hundred aforesaid, which W'as lor
inert)' Condemned for the use of Vincent Gilpin and Joseph
Sitallcrnss; hounded as follows, to wit : beginning at a
marked cornet white oak of'lie laud Heretofore described,
»'sliding a' the distance of three perches and five lentils
front the side ot Btandywine creek, thence by the same
land, north, to the midtile of the Brandywine, thence (low n
the middle thereof iniersec'iug the boundary line of the
ähnle tiact purchased by McLane and Milligan ot Edward
Gilpin and ot bets, thence north to the place of beginn
ing t he the contents thereof more or less: together with
all atul singular the improvements and appurtenances there
unt" belonging or in any wise appertaining.
There is erected.on this property a large cotton Facto
tr, lour stories high, besides two garret floors, and capa
ble of containing 3000 spindles, with 'lie requisite prépara
tory machinery ; built in f 814- There is also a fine hleacli
tug ground, with a spring of fine water, a smith's shop,
»'tit tlte necessary dwelling houses for hands, &c. and
I'ossisses one half the water power of the Brandywine,
'tented and taken in execution as tlte property ot loseph li
Von*. Newcastle, A nr.! 19. 1825 . 43—4t
sunlit, ti
To all whom it may concern.
I Ta meeting of the Trustees of ttie Poor of New Castle
(a. County, Itehl at the Pour House on the 27th ot April,
it was "Ordered hat all accounts, fur funeral expenses
"lit of tl.e house, hereafter presented to the hoard for al
lowance when the Trustees of the hundred have not ex
amined tlte same, the person or persons who exhibit such
secounts for allowance, shall make oath or affirmation that
the person or persons for w horn -uch accounts had been
made, had not a sufficient estate to pay thè cipenses of bury
my and attendance while sick." H. HEALD, Sec'y
May 2, 1825.
!— C)l
NOTICE,
W HEREAS my wife Ann Stewart has left my bed and
board without any cause, this is therefore to warn
persons not to trust or harbor her on my account, as 1
"ill not pay any debts of her contracting after this date.
JAMES STEWART.
43—4tp
M'ilmingt
i, April 29, 1825.
LOTTERY NOTICE.
Conine's Office, Baltimore , April 30.
WILLIAM C. CONINE respectfully gives notice that
Ate [nice of tickets in the Maryland State Lottery, No. 4
advanced in Baltimore on tlte 29th instant to 5 dollars—
kin in order to afford an opportunity to his dis 1 ant friends
uni patrons, to save the advance, he will fulfil their orders
fiailed previous to tlte 12th of May at the former rate ot 4
d"Laes, and at .ares in proportion ; and further, that certain
reliance may be made on tlte drawing taking place on Wed
» -silay tue 18lli of May as already advertised. 43—3t
DRAWING.
MAss Amelia NV. Uout!
TNFORMS her friends and the public, that she lias engag
-1- ed a room in the Academy, in which she will continue
'"Kile lessons, twice a week, in drawing, from the 12th
'1 May. Terms, $55 per quarter.
Wilmington, April 29- 42—4'p
| REMEDY FOR THE PILES
fHHR Medicine m«, „ir..,,, „ ... . ' ,
Jl |, as been fullv ,,l,iS ,*"A ie P U !?.' C .', IS ' ,ne * lllcl1
perience • and in ever« fn.fiî! t0 l 'i? ,n !". , l i e t * esl °* .**"
f r j el ; lt i,j s g een L. ? h W ^' e , " has been falr| y
In some of Hie cases the mtieii.TT? ootJ'P'ote success
! the Zease ffir vents and^lrinl m d * e "
"' e ** ™' lic ?' «4* and hafev^ iîXgoSe Tp^inful
surgical operation, without permanent advantage. It is not
(like those usually advertised,) offered as a certain cure.
this* C onmk/nt 0 ?nr e wldéh*tîîl!l' lhose wit1 '
re i v Wlth L.r,,]', „to/ 6 - ' 13 '' ec ' lmmc 'n()ed, may
J - • , , " j b ,n' nin ,f re le t' even l* 8 w " r8t
„ „„„ „ . , on™ *t»n CHEMICAL STOHE,
No. 273, N. Third, above Callowliill Street, Philadelphia.
A liberal deduction to those who purchase to retail
4th mo. 27th, 1825. 42—4tp
TUITION.
Miss C. YL. & Tu. A. Grosvenoï
W ILL open a School in Wilmington, Del. on Monday
the 9th inst., under the immediate patronage of
the Rev Ralph Wii, liston ; in which the following branclt
will be taught : Reading, Writing, Grammar, Arithme
tic, Geography, Rhetoric, Composition, Drawing Maps,
Geometry, Chemistry, Natural and Intellectual Philosophy,
; Astronomy, Painting, Drawing in Crayons, and the French
Language. Particular attention will be paid to Manners
and Morals. Terms of Tuition may be known by apply.
ingtoRev. H. Williston.
May 3.
I N
43—9t
NOTICE.
A LL persons indebted to the estate of John Pogue, dec'd.,
late of this llorough, are requested to make immediate
par ment, and those having demands against the said
will present them, duly attested fur settlement, to
JOSEPH POGUE,
THOMAS BEESON,
44—9t
, -late
Wilmington, May 6, 1825.
Fx'rs
NOTICE.
A LL persons indebted to the estate of Ilannah Frazer,
dec'd., late of St. Georges Hundred, are requested to
make immediate payment; and those having demands, to
present them duly attested,for settlement, to
ELIZABETH V. FRAZER, Atlm'x.
The Administratrix will attend at Mr. Mansfield's, in
Cantwells Bridge, on Saturday the 21st inst. for the con
venience of those persons residing in that neighborhood,
w ho have business to settle with the estate.
Wilmington, May 6,1825.
44—4t
SHERIFF'S sale:,
By VETER B, DELJi3\'l\ Sheriff.
Y virtue of a writ of lev. facias to me directed, will be
exposed to public sale, at the house of Eli Lamborn, in
Christiana Hundred, on Wednesday the 18th of May, insi
at 2 o'clock, P. M. all that certain lot or piece of ground
known by the name of Wilmington Academy, but now usu
al ly called the Wilmington College, situate in the Borough
of Wilmington, and bounded North by a lot formerly of
Zachariali Farris, South by a lot formerly of Jonathan
Dawes J and containing in front on Market street ninety
five feet and a half, and extending that breadth to King
street ; be the same more or less. Together with all and
singular the improvements and appurtenances i hereunto
belonging. Seized and taken in execution as jlie proper
ty of the Trustees of the Wilmington College.
New-Castle, May 3, 1825.
B
44—4t
Cites. ti Del. Canal Office,
3 May, 1825.
CHESAPEAKE AND DELAWARE
CANAL COMPANY.
N OTICE is hereby given, that a general meeting of the
Stockholders will be held at the Canal Office, on Mon
day the 6th day of June nex', t" elect a President and nine
Directors, and to transact other business, accorda g to law
H. D. GILPIN,
Secretary.
44—9t
NOTICE.
I ÿ hereby given that Josef h Ii . Sims has duly executed
an assignment to the subscriber, of ali his es* ate and
effects, real and personal, for the benefit of such of his
creditors as shall within four months, execute a release lo
the said Joseph B. Sims.
To enable the subscriber promptly to discharge his trust,
the Creditors of the said Joseph B. Sims are requested to
meet at the house of Eli Lumborn , in Wilmington, on
Fourthday (Wednesday) the 11th inst, at 3 o'clock in the
afternoon, to examine the schedule of the property assign
ed, and of the debts to be paid. JUSF.PH GRUBB,
Assignee ot Joseph B Sims.
Wilmington, 5 mo. (May) .5, 1825 44—2t
CHECK BOOKS
On the dij]event BANKS in the Borough,
tOR SALE AT THIS OFFICE.
Specimen of the Sublime.—We were last week
favored with two poem» Irom the same author ; one
ol them "..Written to in Corage the settlement of
the Hollon put chase the other, "A Small Com
pasition on the battle of lake Champlane."—Our
limits will not allow us to give the poems entire;
can only make a short extract from each After
exhorting our young men " to pull up stakes" and
push to the West, our author says:—
Near the Buffalo we will mak a stand
there is a gond country of good land
all thing .we'll have at our hand
w hen we git on hollon purchase,
our Children they will sing and say
hlesed he that happy day
our parents bro't us hear to stay
to spend our lives and tnarre
and eat roast pigs with fork and knives
and liv on hollon purchace.
O wonderful is naters plan
Salt and winning made for man ! &c.
the second poem our author thus emphatically
calls upon " the people" to cherish the widows and
orphans of those who fell on "Champlane."
there is one thing more to relate, those widdows bare in
» mind
whose husbonds bled and died for us, to them we must
be kind
, Naver se their Children want for bred while we have
ennoff in store,
for their pooi parent is tied and gone and cant help them
no more.
We can assure the " lovers of goed" fun, that the
poems entire are equally as good as these short ex
tracts ; and should they ever he found in type, would
well pay lor a perusal. Northern Spectator.
we
1
wives
4
4
In
y
'
Fox THE W ATCIIM A X.
LINES—EXTEMPORE :
, on presenting me a Cake in the orm of
a Heart.
And Rachel, will you give yottr heart
To sad misfortune's wayward child ;
And with a boon so precious part,
For one by deep'affliction spoil'd f
Say shall 1 take in my fond care,
The dearest pledge to mortals given ;
And with affection place it near.
Thy hapless friend's, by sorrow riven I
Oh ! give it here—Yes, give it here,
And I will ever warmly cherish,
With fond affection one so dear,
Till every pulse of life shall perish.
Silent Cave.
To Mm 71 - T
EDWIN.
FOR THE WATCHMAN.
WO WLAN A FLOWER.
There bloom'd a fiow'r of lovely hue
In nature's gay romantic grove ;
'Twas charming to the eye, to view
An emblem of the purest love.
Yes, modest flow'r, 'twas born to blush.
Its beauties rare, its odors sweet,
And ev'ry tendril's glowing flush
Own'd its dear native, lov'd retreat.
The lily and the scented rose
Combin'd to form its foliage fair;
And vernal suns, at ope and close,
Had nurs'd it with a tender care.
of
The gentle breeze—refreshing show'r—
Aided by night's distilling dew,
Had kiss'd the blooming, blushing flow'r,
And sigh'd the breeze to bid adieu.
At length expanded—open wide—
Ils perfume flung on ambient air,
Evinc'd its gradual, growing pride,
More lovely—every day more fair.
Each youth ador'd its rich perfume,
And wish'd the tender flow'r his own ;
Though other flow'rs were then in bloom,
Yet, none in splendoi like it, shone.
No ruby's tint could dare approach
The brilliance of its tinctur'd dye ;
No worm its bud could dare encroach ;
For, ii was dear to soul and eye.
But alii the wintry storm arose,
Swift mantling through the darken'd sky;
The niglt'dew and the frost had froze
The lustre ot its beamb g eye.
How little seem'd tile timid flow'r
To contemplate its early doom ;
How little knew the sad, dread hour
Which had consign'd it to the tomb,
Thus Woman —lovely woman, dies,
A gilded flow'r on nature's shore :
Her beauty fades—her fragrance flies,
And she is known a fh.w'r no more.
WILM1NGI ON MINSTREL.
to
to
in
be
in
of
FOR THE WATCHMAN,
Messrs. Editors —Being in company, a few evenings
since, with some Young Ladies whose judgment of tm
merits of poetical composition, fully warrantee them in
entering into a deep and long disquisition, I was induced
to pay a particular attention to their remarks. I have e» er
adopted the maxim of Zeno—" To hear much and say little."
Consequently, I had a fair opportunity ot weighing tuen
arguments, in the balance of my own adjudication. After
descanting upon the merits of various authors, from the
days of Homer down to the present age of litc-rary wonder;
they filially rested upon the poetical w riters ot Wilmington
It was observed by one, " that two years ago, it was a rare
sight indeed to see a piece of original composition issued
from the press,"—but good lack ! wltut a change tltere now
is. I'aets have sprung up in every corner. A mechanic
nowadays scorns to issue an advertisement in the plain old
fashioned way of prase : —No, it must appear dressed in the
syren garb of poesy, in numbers as soft to the ear, as the
receding tones of the hi art mellowing vibfaiions or the
Æolian lyre. The * WUmingtoniun' was held forth, a9 the
repository of ali the phenomena ot literary genius. It Is a
paper 1 had not seen much of, and 1 felt a curios ty to pe
ruse some of its numbers. The first 1 laid my hands upon,
was dated 31st March, 1825, and in truth, Messrs Editors,
1 was—but 1 will not say wltat It appears indeed tlta;
poets have sprung up t.. true mùshroom ordet—anti 1 an.
learlul, that it some ot them ate not a little more careful l
the arrangement of their ideas, and more modest in literary
theft; that their rising lame will sink as fast into meriiei.
oblivion, as the transitoiy fungus they ate assimilated tu.
But it is not my intention ht re to enter critically into the
merits, or demerits of the pieces I perused :—and since
poetry is the hubby of the day, 1 shall close my remarks by
offering tire following to some of the writers of the • Witming
toman,' and they may apply it to themselves as they think
proper.
the
his
lo
to
on
the
Once on a time—*tit many years ago ;
Ii may be twenty,—'vveiity-five or so—
It pleased dame fare, to place me in a house
Where dwelt a peaceful mau ; but for his spouse,
She was a true Virago :
And when my peaceful friend, bent on no evil,
But well disposed to ruie his house in quiet—
The termagant, his *ife, a very devil,
Ripe for a row, would breed a bloody iiot,
Like that 'iwixt Oih'o and Iago.
It chanced one day, by accident 1 came,
in contact with his rib—
one
of
and
and
in
have
the
ex
When Jerry
Like Sneak, his prototype ; his powerful (tame
Could handle tongue or fist w ith equal glib :
I hesitated not, but run to part 'em—
Proceeding, as I thought, secundum urtem;
When lo! the parties quickly disengaged,
And at my interference much enraged,
Closed their own quarr el—let each other free,
And quickly fastened all their fangs on me !
Moral.
In that line of life in which you are cast—
Suppose t ow a Cobbler —why stick to your last ;
Or a Printer, or Lawyer, a Baker, or Brewer,
Attempt not at poesy, for nothing is truer,
Than that nature designed you for other vocations,
And I advise you sweet banls to stick close at your stations,
N1YVÜE.
Botanical. —Dr. Sibthorpe, the celebrated natu
ralist, had collected some seed, which he believed
to be of a species both curious and uncommon.'
It
had produced a plant which he proposed to illustrate
before a select company of his friends. Numerous
wpre the illuminati who assembled to witness the
exhibition. " Gentlemen," said the Doctor, "the
plant which I would now present to your content
platton, among other peculiar qualities, is remdrka
ble for the tenderness of its leaves : they will scarce
He was right; lor on applying
ty bear the touch.
his fingers to the plant, in order to exemplify this
'entark, he recoiled them with ail imaginable speed,
exclaiming, " D—n it, 'tis a nettle Alas ! alas !
how oltcn are the cognoscenti deceived :
INITIATION INTO THE MYSTERIES OP
THE FRENCH JACOBINS.
The following romantic account of an initiation
into the mysteries of the Jacobins, is taken hon»
the second Seite- of Mr. Grattan's highly amusing
work entitled ' Highways and Byways."—The well
authenticated Histoiles of the Get man Illuminati,
render it probable that this detail is not altogether
fictitious:—
" Cornelius stopped for a while in the narrow path,
on the brow of the hill, along which his companion
led the way ; and while he contemplated the calir*
beauty ot the scene, and felt as it his whole thoughts
could smoothly float rn the silver surfaced stream,
he was roused by Atmand, who stopped short and
said aloud—
'Now citizen, we are arrived. In the name of
liberty advance and enter '
" Cornelius started at the summons, but recollect
ed instantly the purpose he had in mind, and wilts
unhesitating step he tollowed close upon his guide.
They entered a cavity in the earth, almost wholly
concealed by branching shruus, and Armand having;
whispered some watch word, a man dressed in black
received them in sil net. and motioned then, to pass
on. The passage was narrow and winding, dimly
lighted at intervals by melancholy lamps, which
shone on the dark nabs and showed occasionally
grim ornaments of skulls and bones They pene
trated far into one of those excavations which are
formed all alotig the face of the hill, and » hich weie
originally intended lor wine vaults, and u oatoi them
us-d as sm h In the depth of one ot ihtse reces
ses, the society ol the Illuminati htld ib tr seciet
meetings. Every thing which could impose on the
minds of the weak, or rouse the imagination ot the
enthusiastic ptosclyte, was studied in the decora
tions ot the cavern council chamber and its ap
proaches Dim lights, black hangings, scatleted
instruments ot death, and mtmentoes ol mortality,
wee displayed in scanty and solemn arrangement.
Armand led on, followed by Cornelius, who felt no
sentiment but contempt for the imposing mum
mery ; but at length when they reached an opening
space winch Ar.t and announced as an anti chamber
of the council toom, our hero started with horror,
am. felt his biood tun chill as he observed three or
lour naked corpses lying on the floor, in the breast
ot each ol which a dagger was stui k, while from
eat h a stream ot blood tan trickling.
" A- mand saw his emotion, and smiled. He felt
a species ot triumph in the momentary expression
of alarm, which Cornelius's face displayed. But
the iatter construed his smhe in a different sense.
He thought he saw in it tue rejoicing tieachery of a
murderous intention: He shrank back, and turned
Ins head round with the view of flying (torn the
place, when he ebstrved two men drt.-std in black,
with naked swords in their bands, w ho had l< flowed
silently, and made retreat impossible. Thty »aid,
with an encoutaging expiessi. n of countt nance,
* tear nothing, citizen; this is but a preparation tor
the test ol you> cou age and virtue '
"• Do not hesitate nor doubt me, (whispered Ar
mand ;) be firm, ot you are lost '
" With these words he knocked at a door befoie
them, and on his replying still in wh spers to some
questions tioni within, it opened, .ltd he and Cor
nelius once admitted, it closed again, with a sullen
sound, that was like the echoing semence ot eternal
inipdvciim tit.
" Three men of fierce aspt ct sat at a table ; their
lucks giant td wildly thtouph their raven lot ks. ai d
-eemed to tell a story of letoci us thoughts and
deeds. The chamber was like the approaches to it,
laiutly lighted and sadly adorned A book lav on
he table, with writing m teiials. 1 hree or tour
daggers were its only other furniture, and their
blades were steeped in blood
" A tew rapio questions were proposed to Ar
mand, as the name age. and quality ol the it lend
f horn he thus introduced lor admission to the
society. These answered, and entered in the re
gistei, which lay on the table, Cornelius was asktd
he was ready to give his first proof oi Ins patrio
tism, his devotion to the cause of freedom, and his
hatred ot his lues He answered in the afin ma'ive;
and then it was demanded of Armand whtther he
was willing to set the example to his friend of the
deed which he would be called upon to peilorm.
Armand replied that he was, and on the so d, a
curtain was drawn, which disclosed a cave still darker
than the other, from the undtslinguishable depths
ot which, low groans were heard to proceed. They
became giadud.y louder and finally a blond stained
couch was brought forward by (wo men, and on
which lay bound another, wt tilling in apparent a
il
gony.
" ' Take the dagger brother, (said the president ttv
a hollow yet fierce tone) Take the dagger, and
strike the Arisioctat to the heart.'
Armand seized the weapon, and advanced to
wards the couch. The man who lay on it, ai d who
seemed suffering undei the infliction ol toiture, no
sooner saw the uplifted weapn». than he uttered a
shriek, which seemed to pierce Cornelius's heart,
and screamed aluud lor mercy !
ai No mercy for the Aristocrat—no hope tor the
Royalist, (cried Armand ;) blood, bio- d in the name
of our country and our revenge !' and with the last
word he struck the dagger lull against the supplt
ant's breast.
(•
A stream ot blood .ollowedlhe weapon
as he drew it back—a deeper gtoan issued Irom the
body, and both executioner and victim
weie instant.
ly concealed by the black curtain which fell between
them and the witness ol the deed,
1 " Cornelius stood shocked with astonishment and
horror. A lew minute« of dr, adlul silence passed
over when the curtain was slowly raised, aod the
mule attendants carried lorth a dead body, the pou*
tard fast in its bleeding bosom- 1 hey passed the
door, and Cornelius's heart sunk as he heard the
dead weight oi the corpse fall on the earthen floor.
"The coach »vas again brought forward and on
exhausted or
it lay another man, apparently
! more firm than the first, for be only heaved heavy
1 sighs, and but halt turned bis pallid face, and scares
more