it
— — - NIS & J°NES- RICHMOXIJ, VIRGINIA, FRIDAY. MAY an. is«
VOL. II.—NO. 33.
The, COIXSTITCTMOWAL W,„c is published t mice a
tce'k, (Tuesdays and t ndayi,) at /ire dol’ars per annum,
payable in advance. 1
TV Previous to a discontinuance of thdtpaprr, all ar
rcarafies must hr paid up. And those uZo may wish to
discontinue, will notify the Editors to that effect at teas,
scribed*7* brj >re tht PCni>J >rpiret fur u/Achthey sub
J P For advertising—7:, cents a square (or less) for the
first insertion, and 50 cent, for each continuance.—The
number oj insertions must he noted on the MS. otherwise
icy writ tie continued and charged accordingly.
Ij Advertisements from th* country to be paid for in
advance, or assumed by some responsible individual m this
pfaee or Manchester.
■I t All letters to the Editors mast he post-paid, or they
mil receive no attention.
Valuable James ltiver Land
FOR SALE. .
\<\r> U. be sold, on the premises, at public auction, on
▼ " the 20th day of May. my Estate CUKI.ES, lying
r>n ■!•tines River, about 12 miles from the city of Kirli
moiH. containingfive hundred and odd acres of land. Thu
fertility ol this Estate, with its many advantages, are too
well known to require detailing. The u-rms of sale will
5.: one thiid in 60 days; one third in 6 mouths; with the
balance in Id months—the whole to carry interest from the.
date. A clear and undisputed titlewill be made.
Pilose who are disposed to purchase are invited to view
Premises, and for further particulars r.re referred to
»' ode Mosby, jr.
Mandi 11— 211 WADE MOSBY, Sen.
PUBLIC AUCTION.
BV virtue of a deed of Trust executed on the 25th day
of May, 18i6, by Sewall Osgood to William Wirt
111,1 fhomas Taylor, and recorded in the Huntings C’mirt in
.he City ol Richmond, to secure the payment of certain sums
nt money therein mentioned—Will be sold at Public Auc
ion, for ready money, on the premises, on Wednesday the
l.itii day ol June next, at 5 o'clock in the afternoon ol that
iuy.
-i certain piece or parcel ol wound
n the City ol Richmon being a part of the half acre lot
■No. hounded by the Janies lit vat Canal on the sooth,
.oil is a part of the lot conveyed hv Jarquelin B. Ilarvie &
Mary his wife to the sai.l Sewnll Osgood. Mis. Osgood is
entitled to her dower in this property.—The Trustees will
•onvfty only such title as is vested in them, although the title
• i believed to be indisputable.
THO’S TAYLOR, )
For himself and v Trustees.
Wftl. WIRT, )
April 15 18t
HOI ^ fOURT SPRINGS.
rnUlS new and elegant establishment will be open for
rile reception of company the next seusou ns usual.
1 he quality of (lie waters are becoming so. well known, in
ronsequeuce of the gie.at numbers ol persons wtro useil and
received benefit lioin them the last season, that the subset i
ber deems ir scarcely necessary to enter into a detail of their
properties and effects. Ho will however, for the. informa
tion ol those who may still remain unacquainted with them,
remark, that there are two springs, the waters of which are
strongly impregnated with sulphur and magnesia —tin oilier
with iron. The first acts on some as a mild, on others as an
active cathartic, and are strongly recommended in com
plaints of the liver and kidney', in dispipsia, and in till
diseases arising from a disordered stomach; they at once
remove indigi slion. and the causes’ by which it is pimlured;
restore lost appetite, purity the blood and cxluiirute tin
spirits. In cases of ilctittliy and weakness they have been
found particularly efficacious. The waters of the other
spring arc strongly tonic, and thought very proper Ur be used
after drinking the sulphur water. To promote tire effects
of each, hot, cold and shower baths arc provided.
The buildings ol this establishment (as mentioned in a
former advertisement") are all of brick, and in an eminent
degree unite neatness, convenience and comfort. These
points have been part'll ularly attended to in those apart
ments intended for the use of ladies or families. The adja
cent mountains abounding in game, gentlemen fond of
hunting will have an opportunity of indulging in that pur
suit. 1 hose preferring more .Inactive amusements, will find
newspapers, books, chess-men, backgammon tables, &c.
Amusements also for the Ladies have not been overlooked.
Music ol the bust kind will be provided for Dancing, and
such as are fond of playing on the Fortc-I’iano will find in
the drawing-room an elegant one provided for their use.
Moderate exercise on horseback or in carriages being con
sidered very proper whilst using the waters, the subscriber
takes this occasion to remark that the part of the country
in which his Springs are situated is peculiarly adapted to 1
that kind of exercise. They are stttrounded on every side I
by lofty mountains, with a rich and beautiful valley inter
vening between. This valley affords excellent roads, and
in riding out, the pure ah inhaled fresh from the. mountains
acting in connexion with the waters, at once gives assurance
at returning health even to the greatest invalid.
After the 15th June, the western mail-stage from Rirh
motitl passing through Lyuchbing, will come directly to this
tplH.ce. Such gentlemen as do not wish to he encumbered
with horses ami carriages,can adopt that mode of convey
ance, and can he sent hum hence to any of the oilier water
ing places inn hack kept by tho.subscriber for that pur
ple. CHARLES JOHNS I ON.
Botetourt Springs, April 18.1825. w lw
TliEASURV DEPART.ME.XT, ‘29If, April. 1825.
jVTOTICK is hereby given, that on the first Hay of October
- x next, the principal of the six per cent, stock of the
United States, created under the authority of an art of
Congress entitled, “an act authorising a loan for a sum not
exceeding eleven millions of dollars,'* opened on the 14th
■iny of March, 1812, together with the interest then doc
thereon, will be paid to the proprietors of said stork, oi
their uttnrnics duly authorised, at the Treasury of the
United States in Washington,and at the several loan offices
■ m the books of which any portion of said stock may stand.
A surrender of the certificates of said stock will he re
pined at the time of payment, and the interest on said
s tock will cease from and after the 30ih day of September
^ SAM'i. U. SOUTHARD,
may 6 — 431 Acting Scc'y of the Treasury.
1825 Taken by the Subscriber:
■:tn. 10—From V\ in. Da vis's (mat, head-man John, 100 lb3.
loose tobacro.
i’eli. 21 From John Johnson*.', boat, head-man Abraham,
50 lbs. loose tobacco.
** ‘23—From Daniel Lewis s boat, head-man Harrison,
20 lbs. loose tobacco.
“ 24—From John Crank s boat, head-tnan Biily, 75 lbs.
loose tobacco.
.March 2—From Richard & James Duke’s boar, head-man
Alfred, 45 lbs. loose tobacco.
ISI1AM RANDOLPH,
Lock-keeper and Inspector of boats, Wcstham.
may 3 28—wdt
Vmr.l.YlA:
At rules, holrfen in the clrrk’s office of the superior court of
chancery for the Richmond district, the 7th day of
March, 1825;
Joel Allison Post and Waldron B. Po.-t, Pitt,
against
Benjamin Duvall and James Whitlock, Dps.
'Pbe defendant James Whitlock not having entered his
appearance and given security according to the act of as
sembly and the rules of this court, and it appearing by
satisfactory evidence that he is not an inhabitant of this
country, it is ordered, that the said defendant do appear
here on the first day of the next term and answer the bill
>f the plaintiffs; and that a copy of tjtis order be foithwitb
inserted in some newspaper published in the city of Rich
mond, f.i, two months successively, and posted at the front
door of the .capitol, in the said city.
A copy. Teste,
™r 18 H'm. w. HEjVLYG, c. c.
| DRY GOODS.
B\ tli<‘ My, and the Columbia, we have received the re.
mainder of our Spring Goods, comprising altogether
j one of the best assortments we have ever had.
i may 10—tf. WILLIAM NEALE & CO
i-—-:_____
! COLTON & CLARKE
S f^ received from New-York, Philadelphia
an^ Baltimore, (ami expect further supplies) a good
assortment of
ST APIS GOODS,
Suited to the season—which with their previous stork, they
liope will retain their usual customers, and add mure_
They hare also on hand, for sale,
49 boxes Oranges
700 Beams of Letter. Cap, Pot, Medium, and Super
Boyaj. Ac. Priming Paper, from Ames’ and Gilpin
& flu's manufactories
Sole, V\ ax'd mu! Basset Leather
Seal, Call, and Kip Skins
17 bbls Tanners' Oil
Shoe Thread, Snap, &c.&c.
May 111—4t
Bussorah Arabian.
rj^WS celebrated Horse will stand the ensuing season
a* Curies, in the lower end of this county.— For
particulars see handbills. iff_,f
rifiGLYU
At a supei ior court of chancery, liolden at the capitol, in the
city of Richmond, the 10th day of March. lil-J.i:
Charles Irving, Robert Irving, Panins A. Emelius Irving,
Jane Bose, and James Powell and Mildred his wife,
RH.t.
against
Mildred Irving, in her own right, mid as executrix ofClwvrles
Ir\iug, deceased, \\ illiam II, Cabell, in his own right,
and as the surviving executor and one of the devisees of
N'icholas Cabell, the elder, deceased. Joseph C. Ciltjel),
mu! tho sai.l Joseph ‘ . Cabell and Hill Carter, executors
of William II. Hare, George Cabell, and Benjamin Car
rington and Mariana Ins wife, Samuel McDowell Reed
mid Small his wife. Hannah Hare. John Hughes. Robert
Hughes, Mary Hughes, Rebecca Hughes, Alexander Tid
well and Jane his wife, Edward Thomas and Hannah
his wife, and Joseph Shelton and Shelton Suns, executois
of Samuel Shelton, deceased, who wasaiUnimstrator of
Wiliim Hughes, deceased, William tVI. Watkins, sm viv
ing executor ot Nicholas Cabell. Jr. Samuel Irving ami
I’cggy K. and Nathaniel F. Ca'oell. - lifts.
This cause carne on this day to he heard on the hiils, an
swers and exhibits, tint) was argued Iry counsel: On con
sideration whereof, the court doth refer the several accounts
pinyt1^ for by the bill to one of its ci»mfni>sionp.rs. u ho i-, di
recteil to examine, state and settle the said accounts, ami
report the same to the cotlit, with any matters specially
stated deemed pertinent by himself, or. which may be ie
<]tutted by tin* parties to be so str.tetl.
A copy: Teste, IS in. II EM/MG, c. r.
Co^tMissioxKtt'a Offtck, }
Hirhuumd, April 18/A, ISO ,. >
1 be pmt!esint<*rectOt! will please take notice, that 1 have
appointed the loth day of June next, to commence the ac
ciipnt«*.directed in the foregoing order ol' court, on which
day, at 9 o clock,.A. M. they arc. required to attend at my
ollice, in this city, with iht-ir accounts and vouchers rcatly
for exnmWiHtiou and settlement.
May 3:—St. H. BAKER. nr. c.
| VIHG fL\'lA :
I At rides IioIiUii it. tiie clerk’-* office of the Super in, court of
Cltanrery tor tiie Williamsburg district, the 7th day of
March; lRg-S: J
Rcubeii Meredith Mir) William Meredith, aduTrs tie bonis
non of Elisha Meredith and Ann L. Meredith, pits. '
against
John R. Clopton, exVn r.r Joint Clopton,dec’d, William Hill.
I arke Street, \V illiam Ciopton and Samuel Clo|>tou,
sons of Reuben, and Reuben Clopton, dfls.
T,'» defendants William n'nd Samuel Clopton, sons'of
Reuben, not having entered their appearance and givenj
security acroidin" to the act of assembly and the rules of !
this court, and it appearing by satisfactory evidence, that
they are not inhabitants of this country, it is ordered,
’hat the said tlefen hints tlo appear here oh the frvst day of
the next term and an-vver the original and a me tided hills of
the plaintiffs;' and that a copy of tins order he forthwith
inserted in some newspaper published in the city of Rich-|
inoml for two mouths suocc-sively, and posted at the front |
tloor of tile former capital in tire city of Williamsburg.
A copy. Teste,
13 JAMES CAB AMISS, />. C.
__ . _
mus sum
Of F oreign Literature and Science.
work is composed entirely, as its title implies, of
.1. selections from foreign. Journals. A few words may
show that it is, however, tar from being adverse to our own,
institutions and literature—and that, on the contrary, rt
inay have an important effect in preventing the dissemina
tion o| doctrines in discordance with the principles upon
which our society is constituted. Some of the British itc
views and Magazines are re-printed in this country exactly
as they appear at home, and they, as well as those which
arc not published here, embrace much matter of little in
trrert am! no advantage to our readers—and which is not
unlrequc ntlv fitted to vitiate their literary taste, their mo
rals, or their political principles. But while it cannot lie
denier!, that there is in all these foreign Journals a large
part which consists of details and speculations which are
uninteresting to American readers, or mischievous in their
political or moral tendency, it is equally certain that a con
siderable portion ot their contents is of genera] application
i n,,'l of interest and value, and that they embrace much that
is in a very high degree interesting and curious—practical,
sound and able—refined and elegant; much that will excite
thought and refine lire imagination—that will “raise the
genius and mend the heart.’’ And when wc consider that
the greatest philosophers and statesmen, as well as poets,
critics, and all other men of literature, now fiml the peri
odical press the channal through which their opinions ran
be conveyed with the greatest certainty a nil effect to the
greatest number of mrn.it will appear very evident, that a
Knowledge of what is thus written arid done abroad is r.c- !
cessary to the successful cultivation of our own literature, j
and Important to the politician, scholar and man of business, >
as well as to hint who reads only for amusement.
To persons who reside at a distance from the great dc|>o
sitories of New Books and New Inventions, a work con- j
ducted upon this plan i« peculiarly important, as affording I
to them an opportunity of keeping pace, in some degree, I
with the progress of knowledge, at a very trifling expense !
of money or time.
When it is added* that most of the literature of the day I
is not easily accessible in any ether than this form to our !
families,'it will readily be acknowledged that a work con
ducted upon the plan of the Mcseom may be in a very
considerable degree interesting and valuable. How far
this Journal has been successful in endeavoring to merit
these appellations, must be determined by the public; and
the rapid increase of the subscription list is the most grati
fying proof of success.
Terms of Publication.
The Museum is published by K. LlTTEf.l., Philadelphia.
A number appears every month, and the subscription price
is Six Dollars a year, payable in advance.
11 Will be smtfree of postage to every subscriber, so long
ns he continues to pay in advance.
The Museum began in July, 11522—•and all the bark
numbers may be obtained on the above conditions.
in* Subscriptions to the above Work will be received at
this Office. April IS.
AN APPRENTICE
Is wanted at the office of the Constitutional W'hi?.
<£ou$tftutfon<il
IRELAND.
j The following are extracts from an excellent article
on Ireland, which appeared in the last number of the
Edinburg Review:—
The actual state of Ireland—the magnitude, misery
fierceness, and desperation of her population, the vio
lence of their leaders, and the fury of the contending
factions, to which she is a prey—ought, iTanv thing ran,
j to excite the earnest and anxious attention of the pco
■ pic of Britain. Centuries of oppression and misgm em
inent have generated a deep-rooted and cordial"hatred
j ol the English name and nation in the minds of the vast
majority of the Irish people, have depraved and vitiated
their characters, and fitted them for the commission of
every crime. There are, at this moment, from six to
seven millions of peasants scattered over the surface of
Ireland. And while this mighty and rapidly increasing
mass is sunk m the most abj*ct poverty—while it has no
pioperty to protect, no venerable institutions to defend,
! and nothing but injuries to redress,and wrongs to avenge,
i it is ready to engage in any scheme of combination and
j blood.
j Is "nt ,lhis a ^atc of tilings that calls loudlv for in
I qiitry-* Is there any man so blind and bigotled', so stu
| pidlv attached to antiquated prejudices and errors, as to
continue to lend his support to a system productive of
such baneful results? Is not the experience of four
centuries sufficient to convince the people and Parlia
mentof England that it is not by mere biute force, by pe
nal laws and insurrection acts, that the peace of Ire
| land, is to he secured, and the foundations of her pros
[ Parity laid? The period has at last arrived when it is
certain that measures of a decisive character must he
j adopted with respect to Ireland; and we are hold tosav,
i that the integrity, and, for tliat reason, the fate of the
j British empire, depends on the nature of these measures.
It we act on sound and liberal principles, it is not vet
too late to repair the faults and follies of which we have
. been guilty, and to make Ireland our best bulwark. But
| ii we resolve to abide by our present system—if we are
| determined to continue to treat Jiee-sixths of the people j
i as an inferior and degraded caste, and to uphold and j
j otiensh all the gross, flagrant, and, scandalous abuse*
I "l,b wb,<:1' vvo'i P-irt of the internal administration of
| the country is infected, we must expect to see every I
j speqics of outrage redoubled, and the flame of civil war '
rekindled with increasing fury, and raging to an unpre- I
cedented extent.
Have the people ofEngland yet to be told that j>cnce
and kindly affections do not spring from exclusion and
the sword? If we are really desirous of attaching the
people of Ireland to the government of England, »vc
must render that government advantageous to them.—
the peasantry must/rr/, that they are protected by the
laiv —that they have a stake in the hedge—and that eve
r> avenue to power and emolument is open to their am
bition. If you act thus, you may still attach them to
your interests; if you do not. you will alienate them still
tporo. The existing breach between the two count ties
will be gradually widened, and our ascendancy will de
pend entirely on Hie number of our bayonets.
~ * * *
/.IV not ihn.se thing? enough to make us pause? Are i
t ie\ not enough to make even bigots abashed and}
ashamed.—and to stimulate the wise and good-of all 1
parties and denominations, to lay aside their pei*y differ- *
cuccs, and to co-operate fur (be adoption of measures j
ca. .dated to guard against such tremendous cbnse-j
quences. Eel no one suppose that the questions res- j
pi cling Ireland, that must necessarily be discussed iu
the enduing session, affect that country only;—though,
if they did no more than refer to the means by which
seven millions of people might he raised from hclotistn
to freedom; and from poverty and misery to wealth and
happiness, they would be of the highest interest'. But
ins no exaggeration to affirm, that Urn destinies of (be
whole empire hang on these discussions. Ireland can
not sink into the abyss of poverty and degradation, with- j
out dragging Great Britain alter her. Justice to Ire- !
land is in fact justice to ourselves; and cannot be denied, i
without entailing equally ruinous consequences on the I
oppressor as on the victim.
* * * * *
1 hero is at this moment no such thing as a real uni- 1
on between England and Ireland. The arrangement !
si* designated is purely nominal; it rests on no solid or 1
substantial basis; the two nations are not bound toge- '
Iber by tl»e strong and powerful ties of tnuiualinterest
arid reciprocal obligation. Ireland regards England as j
her oppressor, anil not a;; her protector and ally. Bui
if the miserable remnant of the penal code were abol
i.-ned if the Catholics were placed on the same level
inlaw and in facias the rrotestants—new interests and
new feeling? would arise. The recollections of past
sufferings and persecutions would gradually he obliter
ated; good will and confidence between ibe different
parties iu Ireland, and between England and Ireland,
would begin to groyv up: aiui the ground would I bus be
cleared for the adoption of those other measures that
are indispensably necessary for raising the peasantry
from their present state ot poverty and destitution. I
*****
No one, we trust, will do us the injustice to cuppose !
that vve mean to represent the emancipation of the Ca- i
(holies as being of itself a sovereign panacea for all the
miseries of Ireland. Nothing can be more remote from
our opinion. But without emancipation, in the broad
est sense of the phrase—without emancipation in law
and in Jin t—without the abolition of every existing le
galdisability, and the adoption of a system of the most
rigid impartiality on tlie part of Government, it would
be worse than absurd to suppose that the spirit ofdisconl
should depart from the land, and that the foundations ..f
national wealth or prosperity should he laid. Emanci
pation is an indispensable preliminary measure, “dt is
not a charm that will allay every discontent, or remove
every grievance; but it is a sine >pnt non to this being
done: and without it no system of measures can be sne
cesstul.”—[Mr. Plunkett’s speech, 28th April, 1816.]
VENICE.
A history of this celebrated State, eommonlv called a
Republic, has born recently published in France, by
the author, Mr. Daru. The only account that we have
scon of this work is in the last number of (he Quarterly
Review, which contains an interesting article upon it.
'flic Reviewers commence their remarks hy saving
that—“The oiigin of that celebrated republic must be
dated from before the commencement of modern history;!
and its extinction has been numbered among the stri
king political events of our own times. Emerging from
the bo*dm of the waves in the darkest ages of Italian
misery, the queen of the Adriatic—herself immoveable
—became a mournful spectator of the long agony and
dissolution of the Roman Empire. For thirteen hun
dred years she witnessed in security the subsequent ra
vages of continental wars, the rise and declension of na
tions, the change of dynasties—the whole awful drama
of human fate; until the last surviving witness of anti- j
quity, the common link between two periods of civiliza
tion, she fell in her turn, and has reached the lowest
depth of abasement.”
We have often admired the bravery and exploits of
the Venetians, and from a very imperfect knowledge of
the true character ot their government, did suppose that
there most have been something, at least, that was
praise-worthy and free; and when we found the review
ers making the following broad denunciation, we were
for a moment surprised. After mentioning her wars
with Genoa, and other places, and the extension of her
[dominion and influence overagreat part of Lombnrdv
and in Italy, they add—“Lint even these yield in inter
est to the fearful and imposing spectacle which is offer
cd by the constitution arid policy oI her government: —
the gloomiest fabric of real despotism ever crc*cted foi
the pretended security of republican freedom. Uistorv
>as no parallel to that silent, mysterious, inexorable;
tyranny; a tyrauny to its subjects,
—“subtle. Invisible,
And universal ns the air they breathed;
A power that nevtr slotuhe ed, never pardoned;
All eye, ail ear, now here ami every where."
Si range as it may wnn-“under (his dark and re
i lentlc -s administration, Venice was the throne of plea
i sure, the chosen seat, not only of Italian but of Duro
j (>ean festivity;” and aftergiving au account of tbe gaie
i ty and splendour by wbich she was distinguished, the
reviewers say—“Hut in so fair a city, all this splendour,
festivity, and lively activity was consistent with scene*
ot secret, but excessive horror. Her palaces and her
prisons were contiguous; and while tbe masque aml.fhe
revel encoded the edifice of government, that ancient
pile covered abodes of misery, from which men v and
. hope were alike excluded. During the gayest hours o«
| \ euetian pleasure, in the throng of the cassino, or in
fhe mazes of the carnival, individuals disappeared from
j soc,etJ. were hcai d of no more; to breathe an inqni
! ry after their fate, was a dangerous imprudence; even to
j mourn their loss, was an act of guilt.”—“The influence
j ol a secret police pervaded the city; there was no priva
cy in domestic life, no confidence in familiar discourse,
which was not chided or violated by fears and suspici
ons, or a detestable treachery, against which there wan
no assurance, which no caution could guard against, and
where no sharp-sigh tednoss could point out the source
ufihinger.”
During this state of tilings all the proceedings of the
government were kept in mysterious ohscurilv? ‘-The
secret archives of the state wore withheld from the in
spection o! its subjects. Hence all historical accounts
of the republic were superficial and imperfect. Hut
limes are essentially altered at Venice; as the reviewers
remark, “Tbe period has arrived when all the fearful
recesses ol the Venetian despotism inay lie securely in
vestigated. The most secret r icords oftlic extinguished
state have ! eep bared to tbe inspection of the curious;
and even the dungeons of St. Mark have been opened
to the traveller.” Tbe removal of the republican ar
chives by the French, after (be conquest of the republic
by Buonaparte, lias paved the way fora full exposure of
the horrible iniquity of the government, and this service'
has been performed by M. Dam. And a more detest a
ble system of government, or a more h rannical and
sanguinary administration under it, we do not believe
ever existed. \\'e may hereafter notice it more parti
cularly. At present we have only room enough tosav
with the reviewers, fhat-If the state hail "tot been
perfidiously overthrown by tbe French, the epoch had
arrived when it must have sunk under tbe weight of its
own corruption; and .our detestation at (he treachery of
its betrayers is mingled with the conviction, that huma
nity has 3t least nothing to regret in the catastrophe.”
[-'V. V. vidverlitev.
SANDWICH ISLANDS.
riie number ot the < liristian Advocate fur the pre
sentmonth, contains an interesting Up let from Mr. Slow
art, a mis lonarv in the Sandwich L-dands—a gentleman
of fortune and high talents—giving an aeconht of the
manners, language. Sec. of the natives to whose service
he has devoted himself. Of their chiefs he says:
• I hey are all very large, and generally very corpu
lent: hut the common peopte are only of an ordinary
height, and of a lean rather than a full habit. I have
seen no full grown chief, except Kcoptiolani, the king’s
mother, and king Tautnuarii, who does not weigh above
200 ,bs- The sister of the latter, the present governess
ot Tanai. is the largest female in the nation, weighing
between 3 and 400. Tiia is the next largest, and weighs
Kuakini (f.iovernor Adamsj is the largest man, hi*
w« ighs 325 lbs. The medium weight of the chiefs is
250 lbs.
“They may also he distinguished by (heir walk, look
manners. Sec. in this respect, there is a marked diffoi
enee between the chiefs and the “maki ainana,” nr i"
i:o!.!e vu’gus here, as there is between the courtiers ol
St. James or Versailles, and the lower classes in hoii
do’i or Paris. A consciousness of natural superiority
and the pride of adventitious distinction, imbibed anil
nourished from their earliest infancy, gives them an tin
alTected dignity of look and deportment, that would
mark them as persons of rank, in whatever company
they might appear. You must not understand from this,
however true as it is, that .here is any thing Chest crjicl
diun in their maimers—I am speaking of uncivilized
heathens, who are living not only in all the simplicity,
hut in ail the vulgarity of untutored nature.
“Some of the chiefs are very wealthy, nut only in lan
ded possessions, but in money accumulated by the sale
of sandal wood.
“Most of them constantly wear a part or whole of the
American nud European dress.
“The dress of the men is of the neatest and most fash
ionable make, there bring many good tailors on the
Mauds; and besides they often send their measures to
Canton by the trading vessels, and receive beautiful ar
tides ready made. The king purchased 400 suits in
one lot.
I lie royal family have one singular and particular
way of raising money—to wit, by building occasionally
n fine large bouse, and then tabuing it, or prohibiting an
entrance to all persons without paying a tax according
to their rank. Sec.. The sum received from the resi
dents. shipmasters, and others, amounted to 420mO.
The king’s house is 50 feet long and 30 wide—3 fret
high at the eaves, and 30 at the ridge pole; with two
large doors, and a number of windows on each side.
“The exterior ot this palacq is very similar, in shape
and appearance, to some of thcold Dutch /turns I have
seen in Jersey. The furniture, however, consists of
handsome mahogany tables, sofas, chairs, large mirrors,
and some prints and paintings of tolerable merit.
“Every ohiefhas 20 or 30 personal attendants, friends
and attendants, who never leave him for any length of
time: of these some have particular offices, such as the
pipe carrier, pipelighter,spit box carrier, Kuhile bearer,
umbrella and chair carriers &c. and 20 or 30 others,
with their families, who prepare and serve hw food, Sec.
They all eat from the same dishes and calabashes, and
at the same lime, witli their chief.”
SISMONDI ON THE PROGRESS OF NATIONS.
The last No. of the Revue Encycloptrdiqne, con
tains a rapid, but singularly interesting review of the
progress which has been made in the science of govern
ment during the last twenty-five years. It is from the
pen of fiismondi, one of the ablest writers in Europe.
A translation has been prepared by Mr. Duponceau for
the Port Folio: and for the accommodation of those who
arc not subscribers to this journal, a few copies have
been published in the pamphlet form, to which the
translator has prefixed a preface. We should presume
that the names of Sismoodi and Duponceau would of
themselves be a sufficient attraction for these pages,
which in a short compass, present a philosophical and
animated picture of the present state of the civilizer!
world. The following extract will shew how justly the
historian of Italian literature estimates the condition
of the people of these States:
“TheUnited Statcsof America represent the progres
sive tendency which the promoters of one of these
opinions are striving to give to TOaokiOd “iiSJce their
, j emancipation, and partit. jlarly .luring the last quarter
ot a century, th.ir government lias shown no hesitation
tin i's (irin resolution to march forward, to favor with
I al! its might the progress of knowledge, virtue and li
berty; and the rapid increase of the prosperity of the
United States has surpassed all that has ever been
known on the face ot the earth. In order to judge of
tins, we must not lose sight of the point from which we
started. 1 he founders of the colonies were fugitives
; ot ail political and religions sects, each of which had
been persecuted m its turn; they carried with them the
germs of every animosity, they were filled w itli deep
i resentment, tranght with fanaticism of everv de«ct .•>
lion, and disposed to every kind of exaggeration. For
j a long time they were recruited hv the scum of the
, English population, by individuals transported for their
.crimes; at a later period their country became the re
j fuge of fortune seekers, of intriguers and adventurers
i of all nations; the colonies received from the govern
Intents of Europe tlie most fatal of all mstit.itmns—
j Slavery: a part* of their population is dispersed in fbr
ests, or in immense prairies, beyond the reach of courts
of justice, or of social protection. With such dements,
the Americaus would have been under otir Eu:-opean
governments, the most vicious of all people;—they are
entitled, on the contrary, to rank amongst the most
virtuous. There are few nations among whom the
sentiment ot what is right, just and honorable. 13 more
universally spread—where crimes are mi • ?ar*
w here domestic virtues are more in honor; • . rei:
gion, which, however, has no other sanction 1 !,nn eve y
man’s conscience, exercises a more gen r-rl influence
No doubt there arc yet to he found truces of tie
stain which their founders fixed upon them, bn' :(■. y
are every day rapidly disappearing. In the same n,
nor, in tlie Career ot intelligence, it must not he for
gotten that the Americans are but just beginning; they
must have been colonists, agricultures, mechanics,
traders, before they had leisure to devote to the pur
suits of philosophy or literature. We cannot yet ex
pect from them those masterly productions which at
once charm and enlighten mankind; hut they have had
the sagacity to appropriate to themselves all the arts
and sciences of Europe; they have spread, over the
I whole of their population, more reason, more positive
I knowledge, more aptness to imbibe correct ideas, than
.found in the mass of the people of any of the old
; nations of Europe. The liberty of America has de
veloped and strengthened itself with its knowledge and
virtues. No citizen of any other country has so" many
rights and so many securities; and those rights have
never produced the abuses with wd.icli we are constant
ly threatened; no po ular commotions, no inset roctions,
no civil wars; they have enjoyed perfect security in the
midst of perfect liberty. What is now the result of
this treble progression? At the beginning of the pre
sent century, il.c American population amounted to
f..m or live millions) they are now eleven millions.f
At (he beginning of this century their towns were yet
small and porn: they now vie in extent, in population,
and in beauty, with the capitals -of Europe. At the
beginning of this century the United states bore with
difficulty the weight of Iheir national debt; now their
funds are no longer quoted al the London Exchange;
their debt is reduced to nothing, and ihej are indebted
only to thetnsi li es. At the beginning of this century
their commerce, their industry, and even their agricul
ture, were fed by Entish capitals; at present, notwill;
sfurrt/mg Hie immensity o/' their undertakings, Utetf—1
1 own capitals*are sufficient to support them; they' over
; ilmv in the trade of Europe and India, they throng in
the states of America that were lately Spanish, and
impart to them all the arts of civilization. Tin's is
what the Americans have done during the last twenty
fire years; they hare advanced—are advancing; is it
then to he wondered at that we should wish to ad\ auce
likewise?
* Thi! original says, “the greatest part,” which is evi
dently a mistake. The portion of our population so situa
ted, is mi the contrary, very small, coinpaiud to the whole.
„ , Translator.
t 1 Ire President of the United States in his in;.ti-o.al
speech, estimates our p.escnt population at twelve millions.
Translator.
Severity of tht Police, in Rustia.—The last letter*
from Petersburgli say that in consequence of an official
demand by Huron LcbseUern, (he Austrian Amhassa
dor, the Cabinet of Russia has at length consentcd to
bring back trom Siberia those Austrian subjects who
have lx en sent into that distant part of the Russian em
pire, from not having passports.' The negociation has
been delayed; but inconsequence of solicitations made
by the Governors of differcift provinces of the Austrian
empire, urged on by the prayers and entreaties of tho
families of the sull'crt-rs, or the chiefs of the districts to
iv I lid i they belong, the Court of Austria has insisted on
the Court of Russia putting a stop to the rigorous mea
sures adopted w ith regard to many subjects of the Aus
trian Government. At Petersburgli all those fmciga
ers are treated as vagabonds who are not provided with
j passports, and do not exercise a regular profession, and
the authoi ities cause them to he arrested and sent offdo
Siberia. This arbitrary manner olproceeding has giv
cn rise to very serious abuses. It were to be wished
that the agents of other powers accredited to the Court
of Petersburgli would interest themselves also for their
, unhappy countrymen who have becu treated in this man
ner. All the subjects of Austria in Siberia are to bo
| brought hark from that country, and carried to the
| frontiers, whore they will he placet I at the disposal of
the Austrian authorities. The. condition of Foreigners
in Russia is not enviable. They are placed under the
; closes' inspection, arid their conduct is rigidly cuntroul
r'l. The least indiscretion causes them to be sent to
I Siberia, or toother distant provinces. The unpleasant
j situation of those who reside in Russia, may he known
j Ibis—that the Russian Government cannot find
people to fill honourable aud lucrative situations. It has
lately granted, toget over the repugnance which exists
new privileges, higher salaries, and other considerable
advantages, to all those who will accept employments
' in the Governments of Caucasus and Cnisia_Private
; Letter in the Conxtitulione l.
Initiation into the .Mysteries of tl,c French Jacobin.,.
The following romantic account of an iritatinn into the
mysteries of the Jacobins, is taken from the second series of
Mr. Grattan's highly amusing work entitled "High*nvs and
byways.” The well authenticated Histories of the German
Illuminati, render it probable that this deioil is net al,or«
ther fictitious:— h
rornelins stopped for a while in the narrow path on
the brow ol fheh.il, along which his companion led’tho
way; and while he contemplated the calm beauty of the
scene, and felt as if his whole thoughts could »,nooll.lv
float on the silver surfaced stream, he wa. roused bV
Armand, who stopped short and said aloud_
“.Now citizen, we arc arrived. It, the name of liber
ty advance and cuter.”
Cornel,us started at the summons, but recollected in
stantly the purpose he had in mind, and with unhesitating
step he followed close upon his guide. They enfercl
a cavity in the earth, almost wh„||vc.-nrealed by branch
ing shrubs, and Armand ha vipgjvb,.snored some watch
word, a man dressed uj^^Tnvvd in S)|rncc,
and motioned they* to pass on. The passage was nar
row and windtng/lirnly lighted at intervals by melancho
ly lamps, wich;shonc on the dark walls, and showed oc
casionally grim ornaments of skulls and bones. They
penetrated far into one of those excavations which are
formed all along the face of the hill, and which were
originally intended for wine vaults, and most ofth* m