11,11 '▼•Ht.ii* wiiu its nltouiluui nrcun>M*.uiffs>
•'fluid not but disturb the harmony ami impair
tho purity of that lxxly,) tlio small states would
bo wa< confident, bo found willing to unite in an
amendment of the constitution. But, if the
course of legislation was to he disturbed, au<l
Congrex* arc to elect the fVi.%«/««/, the small
states never would, and never ought to consent
t>» change the mode ot voting. They would,
<n» n their devotion to liberty, make a "sacrifice
of a portion of their power on the altar of llieir
country; but they would never make it mere- j
1 v to add to the power of others. The difference
toon, said Mr. II. between .lu* gentleman from
New Jersey and himself consist*-1 in this—t^e
gentleman was wilting to surrender the power !
ol voting for a I’resident l»v states, and was dis- j
n^jcscd to accept in lieu nf it a joint ball it of the
^Strain and House of Representatives; while
-Mr. II. on the other hand, was unwilling to
make that surr/ 'ider, unless the choice of the
President by the people could be secure l,
without any possible interference by Con
gress. Mr. 11. sai i that he was satisfied"that the
state he represented, and the small states gene
rally, would never be tempted to wish that the
election of a PreudmiL should fail, even though
their influence in the election might thereby be
increased. This was the principle on which he
w;v> prepared to act. It did not appear to him
to be i i ri / true l i cable so to amend the con-dilution
as to.wv*>ji*e an election by the Electors. In tbs
•-•vent of a failure at the first ballot, let them be
require.IT) make a second attempt, under such
circumstance* as will secure an election. He
saw no insuperable difficulty in arranging the
details of such a plan. But, if the gentleman
could show that the plan was wholly impractica
ble, and the election cannot, by any means, be
kept out of Congress, Alien, Mr. II. said, he
would be compelled to come to tlie conclusion,
that the constitution must remain as it is, until
further experience shall smrgcsl a remedy for the
evils wo are destined to suffer. One thing he
considered certain, that the small states never
would consent to change the present inode of
election in the House of Representatives for any
uthcr in which Congressshouhl have any concern,
however they might be disposed to unite in any
plan which would effect the choice of the Chief
Magistrate by the unbiassed suffrages of tbe
people.
Mr. Dickerson replied, that he bad not inis
■ understood the gentleman. I le had uol supposed
bis argument in fovor of an election of a Presi
dent by the House of Representatives, but ex
actly the reverse.—When, however, the opera
tions reported, are considered, it ought to he
with reference to the constitution as it now
standi. Is it cure safe to trust the two Houses
of Congress, voting by joint ballot, with the c
lection of President, or to trust the IIousc of Re
presentatives alone, voting by states? The
proposition of the gentleman, to send the elec
tion hack to the electors, after their first ballot
shall have failed, is subject to insuperable .ob
jections, as inay bn shewn when this point shall
be considered. Oue decisive objection is, that
no good could result from sending the. question
b.icK to trie men who had ira lo up mul expressed
'their minds upon the subject; who had decided,
and, by their decision, precluded all rasonahlc
hope of corning, by fair moans, to a choice, bv
the requisite majority, llut, if there were no
objections of this character against this pro
position, it would still be as much au abandon
ment of the rights of the small states, as a
choice by the two Houses of Congress in the
last resort; and much more so than is contem
plated by the resolution reported, as that requires
an equal concession of power on the pait of
the great, states. Yet no suspicion can be en
tertained, that the honorable gentleman has a
ny unfriendly feelings towards the small states.
He considers the election of a President in the
House of Representatives under any circHtn
CG3, as an enormous evil, which he would reme
dy by making a sacrifice greater, perhaps, than
may be found necessary, an 1 certainly toogro: t,
if it is to be at the expense of the small states
exclusively.
Mr. Macon rose in explanation of the allu
sijn made by his honorable colleague lo his re
mark, that the President had always been, with
the exception of General Washington, elected
by Congress. Ho repeated the observation,
with a firm conviction of its correctness, that
thi3 had been the case, an.1 in his opinion, it al
ways would be the case. If the members of
Congress did not act in caucus, they would in
—finance the people i:i some other way. The
people were always writing to the members to
get tlieir opinion upon the different candidates,
and their opinions would have great effect. .Mr.
M. said lie was willing to alter the constitution
—but Congress, said he.willclectthoPrcaidcDt,
be the constitution what it inav.
fhe question oil the nnstponement was then
jut, and earned, ?s has boon heretofore stated.
IN SENATE—March 13, 1321.
On the motion of \Ir. Mill*, that.thc sever
al amendments before the Senate, respecting
tiie election of the President of the Ifnitcd'States’,
he indefinitely postponed—
Mr. King, of New Vork, observe.], that the
excitement respecting the next election, had
become such among the people, and in Congress,
who had been, for the two last year?, much oc
cupied about it, that the sober and impartial e\
amiouti > i of the very important subjcctofa
■mcn.l ner.Ls of the Constitution, cannot be now
exp-clod. The amendments should, therefore,
bo postponed to a period wlien the Senate may
ir’.ie for a more temperate and rational exatni
; ition of locui Ilian at the present time can take
jdac~.
Without entering into any examination of the
pro mhc ! amendments, he should vote for their
po too te-nenf, not only for the reasons which he
1« ila signed , hut for another, am!, as he thought
a still ci nv irnfiortant consideration ; in refer
to which, he must request that lie might not
be-monos.-1 to want respret for, or to claim an
thority over, the opinions ofanv member of the
Senate. We all stand time as equals, and it was
for this cause, after the expression orhisdefence
to the rights of others, lm hoped, without of
fence, that he might exercise his own rights.
Ho shuld, therefore, proceed, after ♦ ouchinr on
<>«rta:n '"‘•nd irucntal provisions of the Consrilu*
ti.m or h and of union, of the United States, con
stituting wlnt lie called the true balance of pow
er in our political system, to draw the attention
'» the Senate to a new, extraordinary, self,
created, central power, strop ^er that the pow
croi'che Constitution, which has r:-ui un, at
the sc it. of government ; a power which h >>* ...
f!io direction and control of the fundi
nieotal omvisioas of lh ■ Constitution relative to
the election of die President. In attempting
to reform the Constitution, it is not only nece.C
sarv correctly to understand its established and
well-considered regulations, but to make inquiry
concerning the manner in which these regulati
ons have been observed, an I the advantages or
disa 1 vantages which arc found bv experience
l-» procoe 1 fro n the obs *rvanoc of or departure
from the established provisions of the com >acl.
hv which, tinder the giiarant -e of all to each!
tae c->fr- expected * > remain separate coequal',
an 1 severe igu republics.
It ir. therefore, expedient, on a motion fardr
indefinite postponement of the proposed amen I
tn-mHof the constitution, in whatever light
may haVe hitherto regarded them, to allude to.
to designate, and call upon the Senate to exam
ine, the nature, tendency, and danger, of tbi-ii
new and extraordinary power, which lias ri«-n j
up, and cMabli -bed itself, a* the vr-rv scat of tlo- j
vernrvmt; which has al 'ea ly assumed a i ho
Titjr unknown to the constitution, aa j, ;hre»‘ ms !
So overturn the balanrc of power, proceeding
Irtim its division and distribution between tbo
States and the United States.
'Vc alt know that the constitution of the Uni
ted States is the fun ! mental act of the union of
the States, defining the power yielded by each
state to the United 'Matos,establishing the recip
rocal rights and duties of the States and of the
United States, and, in respect to the latter, de
termining the nuiuner in which their authority
sliall lx* exercised.
The authority of the United States is divided
into three great departments, anil the manner
of appointing the members ul each department
is equally fundamental as their division, and ne
cessarily excludes every other manner of divisi
on, or appointment.
I lie daubers to which experience had .shewn
that the election of Executive Chiefs arc liable;
dangers which hid loti other nations to pre
fer hereditary to elective Executives, were,
without doubt, well considered by the members
of the general Convention, who, nevertheless,
j did indulge the ho|X!, I»y appointing, limiting, &
I confining the electors within their respective
; states, and by the guarded manner of giving &
j transmitting the ballots of the electors’to the
I seat ol government, that intrigue, combinedi
| on, arvl corruption, would he effectually shut
out,and a free and pure election of the* Presi
dent ot the l uited Stales made perpetual.
At an early day, however, aud on the first &
only difficulty which has ever occurred ill the
inanucr ol electing the President, an alteration
of the constitution was made by the Senate.
This alteration, which now forms the constituti
on upon the subject, while it may prevent what,
at the moment, was believed bv a majority of
the states to lie a mischief, which was feared on
ly, ns it never happened, has unfortunately left
the United States unprotected against present
jand future evils of greater magnitude, against
I which theprimitire provision would have proved
an adequate security.
The excitement of that period, proceeding
from causes not likely again to have happened,
admonishes us against future alterations at pe
riods ot agitation, and dissuade from proposing
future alteration at this time.
The constitution provides that the President
and \ ice President sliall lie elected in this man
ner; eaedi state sliall appoint, in such manner
as the Legislature thereof may direct, a number
of electors equal to the whole number of Sena
tors and Representatives to which the state may
be entitled in the Congress; but a Senator or Re
presentative, or person holding any office of trust
or profit under the United Stales, shall not be
appointed an Elector.
The Electors sliall meet in their respect ire
strifes, and vote by baiiot for President »c Vice
Prcsitlcn, one of whom, at least, shall not he an
inhabitant of the same state with themselves.
They shall name, i.i their boll.its, the person
voted for as President and, in distinct ballots,
the person voted for as Vice President; and
they shill make cist i net list; of all persons voted
for as President,’and of all persons voted for as
V:ce President, and oftho number of \ .ilea for
I eacii; tvlitcfi lists they snail sign and certify, ,v
j transmit sealed to the scat of government of
the United Slate-, directed to the President of
the Senate. T!ic President of the Senate shall,
in presence of the Senate and Hons •; of Repre
sentatives, open all the certificates, and the
| votes shall tlicn be counted; the person having
the greatest number of voles for President, shall
he the President, if such number be a majority
of the wo ale number of electors appointed ; and,
tf no person have such majority, then, from the
persons having thobighnst numbers, not exceed
ing three, on llu- li t of those voted for as Pres:
diml, the House of Representatives shall choose
immediately, by ballot, the President. Rut, io
"housing the President, the votes shall be taken
by states, the representation from each state
j having one vole; a quorum for this purpose
j shall consist of a member or members from* turn
i ’birds cf the states, and a majority of ail the
states shall be necessary to a choice. And if the
House of Representatives shall not choose a
President, whenever the right of choice shall
devolve upon them, before the fourth clay ol
•March next following, tlicn the Vice President
shall act as President, as in the case of death, or
other co'.v* titutionul disability, of the President.
Such are the actual provisions of the Cuiisti
fu ion respecting the election of the President.
The Constitution itself, as we are informed by
the report of the Convention to the old Con
gress, was the result of a spirit of amity and of
mutual deference and concession—greater pow
ers were surrendered to the United’ States by
the large slates than by the small ones, because
•‘heir numbers and resources were greater.
* he I fou~c o! Representatives is composed
on the basis of the numbers cf the respective
slates, the small statu; here yielding to the large
ones, and the Senate is composed on the basis of
equality of states, the large states bore, in turn’,
deferring to the small ones. The Executive is
chosen bv neither rule, but by the influence of
?) >.ti rulfs united; it is woll Icnotrn that the
small ?lates would not have consenled (o the
clioieo by electors, a mode favorable (o the large
•states: but, upon the consent of the larg-e states:,
on the failure of the choice of the President bv
the electors on the first trial, that the House of
•Representatives voting by stales, the ropresen
*;<tion from each state having one vote, sh.dl
choose the President, not from those they deem
'he most worthy, but from the persons having
the highest numbers, not exceeding three, on
the list of those voted for by the electors, there
by restricting the choice of the House of Repre
sentatives to the three highest c.mdi infos nomi
nated by the large states. To this adjustment,
•Vmch was brought about by compromise between
the states no objections were made at the pe
riod when (ho t’anstitntion was afterwards un
der the discussion of the several states. Tho’
great difficulties occurred in the debates of th.
f'alc Conventions on other portions of thcCon
• 'itution of the United States, no opposition np*
p -.ared to the provisions of the Constitution re
specting the manner of electing the President
•—and no such objection occurred until the
fourth election of the President, which was
nade bv the House of Representatives; since
that period, five Presidential elections have ta
| lorn place, and, in rnght of the nine elections,
(tie President has been chosen bv the elec
tors; tho fourth election is the only Instance
in which, the President not being chosen bv the
-doctors, Hie election devolved on the House of
Representatives. The compromise, on thesub
I jeet of the Presidential election, which has been
always binrfin.? in honor and goo 1 faith, serins
of late to have been f>rgotten; and dissatisfac
tion and complaint have appeared at the Seat of
Government, in Virginia, New York, and other
states, that the influence of the great states was
unreasonably impaired bv the provision of the
( mnsfitution, that, after the failure to choose the
President by the electors, the e lection should
devolve upon (he House of Representatives, al
though the House of Representatives is restric
ted to ttie choice of the President from three
Candi lutes, nominated bv the FJectors, a ma
jority of whom are appointed by the large, states.
Hence it has happened, from year ty year, that
attempts have been made by certain states to
alter the Constitution on the subject of the Pre
si lential election, notwithstanding this election
is matter of compromise an 1 compact between
(bo states, without which, no constitution or
onion could have been formed. Hitherto these
af lemps have all failed, and, since the addition
of so many now states, the probability of anv al
teration of the constitution is much diminished:
but, while chance of any re gular alteration is
lessened, the dangers of the constitution are*
much inert ased. The formidable central pow- *
nr, which h:u appeared ut the seal of govern
ment, which is neither deputed from, nor ap
|H>rtioucd by any established rulo ainoftj the
states, but proceeding from a self created body,
unknown, to the constitution—u body which ac
knowledges no law founded u|h*ii common and
equal rights, knows no superior, ami which
reaches, anti is systematically combined with i
afliiiutrd bodies at the seats of government of I
the great states—a Uxly that alrcadyconstitutes '
a power, greater than the powerof the provisi
ons of the constitution, and assuming the right
to nominate the President of the United States,
expects, by the assistance and iucreasc of- their
distant associates, ami the discipline and popu
larity of their,leaders, to elect the President in
violation of the manner prescribed and establish
ed by the constitution.
The ceiUral power at the scat of government
at present composed of asclect number of the
j members ol’ Congress who, from their official
station, have access to, and intercourse with,
the foreign ambassadors, as, likewise with the
I great officers of the government, and, by aid of
i tin* Post olfice. and the public Press, comma
| ideate with their associates throughout the coun
try. Such a body arc sapahle of having, and
actually do possess, great iullucncc in every
part of the Union. They are under no restric
tions as to tiic number and condition or resi
dence of their members; the Judges of (lie Su
preme Court, should they consent, may he ad
ded to this central jur-to, an addition which
would increase their respectability and intlu
oncc; they might proceed further, and the Heads
of the Executive Departments might be request
ed to become members of the central junto;
should they also unite with them, their influence
would be still further increased. Should peri
lous times occur, and men of unehastened ain
bition become the President and Yrice President
of the United States, they would employ this
central power to fill the two Houses of Con
gress with (heir favorites, and, by their co-ope
ration with the governors and popular clubs at
the scats of the state governments, be able to
effect in ourou n free country changes which
might u'tcrly subvert our beautiful scheme of
government. Should this central power, ex
tending to all portions of the Union, be able, by
the co-operation of its associates, to discredit
and supersede the separate powers of the states
in thg choice ol President, it would afterwards
find less difficulty in cdlcctmg the consolidation
of the Executive powerof the United States,
which, hy the constitution, proceeds from, rests
upon, and is hound to defend, the separate au
thority ol the respective states. This done, the
reform will not slop at the consolidation of the
Executive power of the United States, ruinous
as that measure may prove; but wiJI extend to
the legislative department, and, difficult as the
attempt may seem, endeavor to abolish the equal
ity of the states in the Senate. This alteration
urn}’, in the commencement, he a mere rccoin
; mendation, like the conge d'utirc or nomination
ol the President by the central power at the seat
oi government; but, recommendations often re
peated, will, in time, become imperative com
mands, and to this end it will bo urged tlr.it, bv
nurse means, our p»an of government will bc
ootiiL' more economical, more simple, more mag
nificent. arid le liable to change from occasiou
|al popular excitement. VVe tnay have one
Chief Magistrate, instead of 25—one Uegisla
* ire of 300 members, instead of 25 legislatures
of three or four thousand members—one Judi
ciary, instead of a thousand, supported by law
yers, whose numbers would form an army—and
instead of an irregular choice of the President
by the present me le, we may have one unbro
ken succession ci Presidents, worn a consistent
and perpetual body, whose plans of policy and
pretensions to power bad b-_cn settled bv unin
terrupted and secret deliberations,
I iiese changes may not occur, and our best
security that they wilifioi, depends upon the pa
tient, firm, and constant adherence- to the pro
visions of the constitution. '{'lie compact be
tween the states has already received the sanc
tion of one generation ; the alteration which it
suffered, during this period, may, perhaps, In
common consent, hereafter be itself altered, and
the constitution restored to its primitive form;
the changes which happened i.a the government
,of Holland, in the Italian Republics, and the
progressive steps by which elective magistrates
have elsewhere become hereditary, should in
duce us to adhere with decision and fidelity to the
I checks and securities which our constitution has
| provided for the preservation of our representa
j five system of government, balanced as it is bv
flic division of power between stales, unequal
in territory, numbers and wealth, and between
(hern and the United States.
The successive attempts to alter (he eonstitu
lion, originating in mosl instances in the belief,
that the proposed amendments would I»e. posi
tive improvements, although they have failed,
have, nevertheless, not only disturbed the re- !
pose of Congress, but weakenc ! the stability of I
the constitution.
>v uiic mo subject was u:-.dcr deb do in the
general and state conventions, every article ami
provision thereof was open to free examination.
In thosediscussions different question1;arose up
on the division of the powers between the states,
an>l between them and the United States; and
particularly in determining-the manner in which
the power of the last should he cxtvcir.cd. On
this subject, the journals of the CJeno-roi Conven
tion show th.it the deputies from thegr-’nl states
desired an influence proportionate t-> their p-rcat
cr numbers and resources: while the.a from the
small states shewed an equal or greater -alicri
tu !e to preserve, as far as possible, th • mihu-oc,
of equal sovereigns, which they rni - .cj under
the confederation, an 1 in fact ( ,«--l i]i the
formation of the constitution iUclf. Thecon
stitution, therefore, ought to-be regarded as a
compact expressive of the liberality and pro lent
policy*of the states, and its apparent inequali
t.cs constitute a peculiar system' of balances.
kderived from permanent natural differences a-!
inong the states, wliich is believed tr> he suuori
or to any artificial establishment, or political
< barter heretofore devised. ’I’hc unceasing
jst.uggle lietwcen the natural superiority of the
great slates, and the self loveand spirit ofcqttali- i
ty of the small “tales, (which will indurc so long!
as their freedom shall exist) con-titutcs an cqu£
poise of unceasing effic icy in tlie tnaiutaimutce
arid the preservation of our political svstem. j
1 his system ij a dc to mmutahi and preserve :
our envied freedom, if it fortunately lias influ
ence suflicrent to create in the hearts of the
citizens of the Unite 1 staff s tlir.t affection and
fidelity without which no plans of freedom ever
have succeeded, or can succeed.
Tl is demanded that any member ofthe Senate
would point out an article or clause ofthe con
stitution which authori/c», or givei the •dMit'-st
encouragement to, measures of any sort, * by
which a concentration ofthe votes for the Presi
dent may be effecte d, pro ion ,!y to th ) choice of
electors in the several “dates. ' |f IIO M]Ci, nM.
thonty can be shown, and .Mr. K. said that, in
his opinion, none could he pointed out, it may
be fairly inferred, from the provisions of the i
constitution, and the power of Congress t-» civc i
c rect to those provisions, respecting the times 1
of appointing the electors, th$ time, the manner
and places wheie, they mu>l assemble and give
their votes trilfiin thch' mnrrlirr tl not only
that no such authority esc,Is, but the r;-Cci e
and definite regulations which restrict an l con
uie, within the respective «t:stc the initia'orv
pciccss m the election nftb- President, exclude
every other and different manner of beginning
the election, and connected with the inhibition
o' Tembrrs of ( ongress and persons boldin'*-:
offices under the Uni**! States from becoming
electors deiponst rats the illegality and ff;n2<£!
rous tendency of a central power, at the scat of 1
the general government* conducing to nominate ,
the Presidentof the United States, eight mouth* '
before Uis election. Members of Congress be- i
longing to this central j>ower, and, moreover, I
possessing great talents, learning, and expert-I
cnee, will obtain an influence with the execu
tive departments which must impair the just j
influence of others, not possessing the same I
authority. Willi these discriminations, such
members, received with distinction by foreign
ambassadors, ami necessarily holding, under
circumstances of favor, intercourse with the
chief officers of the government, will form con
nexions, and establish regular intercourse with
persons of like talents and learning in the seve
ral states, and, in a special manner, at the seats
of government of the principal states—these dis
tinguished men becoming the Illuminati of our
country, and being regulated by a sort of free
masonry, the sign and pass word of which will,
at once, place the initiated in full confidence
and communion with each other, in all parts of
the Union. Such combination.; secure to the
members of the central power influence and ad
vantages in the making laws, as well as in the
precurring of appointments of every sort, and,
above all in promoting the election of such can
didate for the Presidency as they may select
anJ nominate. I he members of the central
power will, under such circumstances, devote
more of their time, during the sessions immedi
ately preceding an election, in arranging, com
bining, and extending the means to effect the
election of their candidate, than will Ik; bestow
ed on the ordinary and regular business of t.'on
Srress ; and, instead of-doing the business that
they were deputed to perform, they will he en
gaged in other duties which interfere with them.
The course of events, during the last winter,
may have alread y led near oh servers to suspect a
connexion existing between a central power of
tin's description, at tho scat of the general go
vernment, and the legislatures of Georgia, North
Carolina, Virginia, and New York, and perhaps
of other stales.
It is supposing men to he blind to the influence
and results of former examples of this nature,
that have appeared in oilier times and countries,
to believe that individuals, distinguished by ta
lents and experience, aided by skilful associates,
especially at the scats of the state governments,
wiH he likely to fail in the accomplishtncls of
their purpose.
Rome, m former times, was the sent of a
great central power, which reached to her remo
test provinces, and the life, liberty, an 1 proper
ly of, the citizens were every where held sit the
mercy of this power. Paris, in our own time,
has also been the scat of a great central power,
which extended over ai! parts of France, ami,
acting upon the people in all their towns and
villages, punished opposition to its mandates,
and whatsoever were deemed errors in political
opinion, with confiscation of properly, ami loss
of life. '
These rcmalis arc not to beanswerd by a ref
erence to the practice of the State Legislatures.
Conference and meetings among the members
of those local bodies, to agree upon measures
in reference Instate policy, arc not liable to the
same objections. Their hnluencc is less power
ful, and they operate within more limited spheres,
ami the members are more responsibe for their
political acts, as well as by the greater frequen
cy of state elections, as by the sce ne of their
political operations being nearer to the super
vision and inspection of their constituents. Nei
ther are there the same constitutional objections
arising from the inequalities of the stales and
from our federative and balanced system of go
vernment.
It was to protect the people of the slate from
this great central power that, instead of con
centrating power in one place, the constitution
has provided for the division and distribution of
it throughout and among tho states. Ry adher
ing to this division and distribution of power,
though we find our government less simple,
more expensive, and less magnificent, we mai
rationally hope to preserve our political integ
rity, and to perpetuate our liberties.
. There a re apparent defects inour Constitution.
>Ve have, never theless,increased and prospered
under it. If these defeats were cured,the very
means which should elTcct the cure may intro
duce, as has happened, other and greater de
ects, especially when these alterations are made
;n tho midst of politiir.il cxictement, and without
opportunity of regarding all the evits connected
with the remedial amendments.
All that is the work of man is, likehim, imper
fect. Wc probably enjoy a greater portion of
freedom and happiness than falls to the lot of o
th .'r nations; and because wo desire yet more,
we must be careful not to lose what *we have
by hasty and parlial alterations In our pi: n c;
overnment. He would, therefore, prefer to
.'■here, for the present, to the constitution as
• w, in hopes that adequate means may he de
is. d to suppress this great and alarming central
uower, which is now oppressing the constitution
sself, by controlling and superceding its wise
and well considered prm isions.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Satt hday, April 3, ifi^d.
Mr. L:((lc, from (ho Committee on Pensions
:i<J Revolutionary Churns, made an unfavoru
:’>e repo; t on Hie petition of Aim Welch; which
-as laid on the tabic.
On motion of Mr. Little, the hill from the
ycnatc, “altering- the lime of holding the courts
in the District of Columbia,” was recommitted
to the committee on tint Distiiet.
The amendments proposed l>v tlic Senate to
(he biM, entitled “ An act making appropria
tions fortlie support of the Navy of the United
States for the year 1821,” were read, and rc
f< rred to the Committee of Ways and Means.
The bill from the Senate, “ confirming cer
tain acts of James Miller, as Governor of the
territory of Arkansas, ami lbr other purposes,”
was read a third lime.
Mr. Forsyth inquired into the circumstances
which led to the necessity of this act, which
were stated rn reply bv Sir. Webster. Mr.
Taylor, of Vow York, called for the reading ol
the Pred lout’s rn.-,sairn on the subieet. '
Mr. Cocke moved to recommit the hill to (lie
Committee on (he. Judiciary, to have certain a
•ttendments made therein. The motion did no!
rev-ail, and thu bill was thenand sc.it to
the Senate.
The engrossed hill “ author! in- Us.-, execu
tors of John U. Mchane to col leer certain ar
rears of internal taxes,’’ passed, au J sCntto the
Senate.
A hiil which has passe l the Senate, sup
plementary to the several acts providing t'-r a
cert.lining and ndjnsling the titles and cfiims
to land inlho St. Helena and Jaclumi CV.mt
House <.on I District.” traslvvicr read, au l re
ferred to the Committee on Ptiblfr r,a v:
REVISION' OFthi: tariff/'
71»r House then again resolved itself into a
committee of (lie whole on the state of the Uni
on, Mr. CoiulieL in the chair, on the hill “ to a
rnend the several acts 1 tying duties on imports.”
Mr. Williams of N\ C. resumed. an«t conclu
ded, his speech on the general principles of the
bill, and ui opposition to its passage.
Mr. Strong, r»r New York, then took the floor
m favor of the bill, and spoke till past two o’
clock.
He was succeeded by Mr. Isnefes, of Tennes
see, who, though in favor of its general features
wai oppose 1 to (he minimum on eotlon-n
Mr, f arse |y, of New Jersey, fl.en delivered a
short, but forcible speech in support of the hill
when.
On motion of M-. f'ajter, &3cottTmiUc* r- ,e
md—The House adjournal.
IN SENATE.
' MoNJMr, April 5,182-1.
A co.4!!mi meat ion from the Covcmor of the
State ol 1 enmy l\ atua, transmitting a resolution
of the Lcfidalurc of that State, approving the
declaration of the President in relation to the
preservation ot liberty in the Western hemis
phere, was read and laid on the table.
A communication from the Legislature of the
Teritorj of .Michigan, in relation to a standard
of weights and measures, was received, read,
and roteried to the coiutuillceun C ommerce aud
Manufactures.
Mr. Mcllvaine presented two memorials of
citizens of the shite ot JVew dorsev, praying on
increase of duty on imported iron. * Referred to
the Committee «;:i Commerce and Manufac
ture*.
1 he hill-‘tu provide for the extinguishment
ot the debt due to tbc United State-. i.\ the pur
chasers of the public lands,” and the bill “to
change the terms of the circuit and district
courts of the United States in the slate of Ohio,
and one of the terms of the circuit court in Ken
tuck),” were severally read the third time,
PAs.sLo.and sent to the other I loose for concur
rence.
The hill reported by the Judiciary Committee,
“supplementary to the several acts for the re
lease of persons imprisoned at the suit of the U.
States,” was taken up for consideration in com
mittee of the whole, Mr. Buggies in the chair.
This hill provides for the release of A. B. Mat
son, an insolvent debtor, imprisoned in the state
| of Pcnnselvania, who is prevented from taking
the oath necessary to his release- by the absence
I of the DI- trict Attorney for that District. The
i bill u .<s reported to toe Senate without amend
ment, and passed to he engrossed and'read the
third time.
! Mr. 1 Jayne presented (lie rcmonstiancc of
the citizen- of St. Luke’s Parish, in the State of
I Carolina, against the passage of tho tariff bill.
Referred to ihe Committee of Commerce and
; Manufactures.
IM PR I SON ME NT FOR DEBT.
| The bill “to abolish imprisonment for de.l*t,”
i '^as dicn again taken up fur consideration.
Some further amendments were made in the de
tails of the hill, at the suggestion of Mr. Mills.
Upon one oftheseamendments which was that the
creditor shall have a right to hold his debtor
to bail, without proof of fraud, when he is about
to leave the slate in which the debt is contrac
ted, some cursory discussion teuk place between
Messrs. Mills, Van Boron, Johnson, of Ken.
Uaync, Hoicks of Maine, Talbot, and Chan.ll^r
I it was then agreed to.
Mr. Harbour proposed a proviso, that no per
son should lie required to give hail, except in
the stato in which he resides. Mr. Mills and
INI i. Lloyd, cl Mass, oppose! this iitnondment,
and .Messrs. Barbour and Smith supported it!
It was net agreed to. Air. Van Huron proposed
some amendments, which were adopted.
Mr- Talbot proposed to amend the bill, by
providing that no debtor shall be held to bail',
except in the state where lie resides, or the state
in which the debt was contracted. This provi
sion was supported by Messrs. Johnson, of Kv.
(who called for the Yeas-«nd Jfays,) and bv
Messrs, Dalnot, and 1 ay lor, of V a. and opposed
by Mr.- Mills. Mr. Talbot then modified his
amendment, by adding the words “unless the
defendant shall have absconded from the state in
which he resides, in order to evade the payment
of his debts.” The amendment was carried_
ayes 28, nocs 11.
Mr. Chandler moved an amendment to ex
empt the debtors to the debtors to the United
States from the provisions of the bill. This was
not agreed to.
The amendment proposed by Mr. Vandike,
when the hill was before under consideration, to
authorize the creditor to put interrogatories, &
i to maLc suggestions in relation to the casp, and,
j u they arc not satisfactorily answered by the
defendant, the charges therein contained • to be
taken as facts, was then taken uf>.
Mr. V an 1 dike offered a few remarks in sup
port of this proposition ; it was, also, supported
by Mr. \ an Barcn, and opposed by Messrs.
Johnson, oflvcntucky, and Talbot, aud was then
adopted by the Senate.
Air. Johnson, of Kentucky, proposed a new
section to the hill, extending its operation to the
District of Columbia ; which was agreed to.
AD-. Van Dyke submitted a proviso, “ that no
thing, in the first section of this act contained,
shall extend to suits-in which the United States
are a party.” Mr. Chandler called for the Yeas
j ailt^ ^a.',rt cn the adoption of this amandment.
I Some remarks were made upon it, by ATessrs.
| Van Dyke, llaync, ?*oble, Barbour, Johnson,
of Ivy. and Macon. Air. Holmes, of Maine,
moved to amend the amendment, by adding to it
l the words, “ against any contractor, or receiver
or disburser of public moneys.” Mr. Ilolmcs,
and Mr, Johnson of Ky. advocated this amend
mc'd and Air. Van Dyke opposeJ it. These a
mondmcnls were both withdrawn, and a substi
tute proposed by Mr. Van Dyke, as follows:—
“ il a; notiiing in the first section of this bill shall
extend to any suit brought to recover moneys
received1 by the defendant, on account of the U
uiled Slates.” This was agreed to.
I he bill was then ordered to be printed, as a
rnended ; and without taking the question on its
third reading,
The Sonata adjourned till to-morrow.
HOUSE OF REPHESENTATIVES.
r.n, APpnopnjATiojsrs.
rfir House resolved itsclfinto coinmillre of
the whale, Mr. Tomli'.son in the Chair, on the
amendments proposed hv the i'rnute to the bill
making appropriations for the support of the
Navy. i ho first question reason concurring
ailh the Senate in striking out the specification
of the items of expenditure of the fund for con
tingent e:: proses of the iSavv.
After .some observations by \fr. MoEane, ex
planatory of the history, ami intention,‘of this
clause of the bill, the House resolved to disa
gree with the Senate’ in the amendment to strike
out ; by which' resolution, they retained the
dau*e of specifications, fas originally moved in
the lower House hv Mr. Mel..)
The question being next on agreeing to the
Senate’s amendment striking out the‘smn of
In),'K)0, (moved in the lout House by Mr.
Cocke,) and reinstating the sum of $ 2id,000
I”1 l*r*t reported bv the committee of tVays and
Means.)
A di-bata nre-; -re I, in which Messrs. For
■*.vth, ]!a'n>ioph, Cocke, Warfield, and Floyd,
opp:»sed, and Messrs. AfeEane, and Fuller ad
vocated the amendment—*an I the question be
ing put, on disagreeing with the pate, it was
carried—ayes f*3, ones PA—to the House re
fused to reinstate the nun cf $2i.0,b00, anti left
the blank filled with i?;0,0Q:>’!
The next, qur»fion upon the Finale’s 2d a
mmdmenf, which provides fa.* a small pMrrhn.se
nf land near the Navy Yard, a I Charleston,
’f . was agreed to witn the ffdlrr.ving amend
ment, proposed by Mr. band .Iph vz: adding
after the word “ pu rc-mu” “ by and ivith the
consent of the Commonwealth of Massachn
-r<ts.” The remaining amendment of the be
rate was agree I to without debate—when the
Commsttee rose and reported tl»e disagreement
of the Committee of the Whole to the first a
mr-ndment—its agreement to tho srron j, n iti.
an amendment, and it* agreement to the third.
The House concurred with the Committee
and the bill was returned In the Senate.
iu:VISION OF THE TAFIFF.
Oil motion of Mr. T»», the Ib u e (hen went
into committee of the whole, on t !,« | f j| << f,, A.
inen.l the seve
t "itl.iiet f7!
:s on imp:
Mr. ]sacks modified his motion of Satnrdart
for striding out the rninitnum on cotton, so as to
leavothe present minimum untouched, viz: by
inserting 25 cents instead ol‘ 35 cents, as the
ininunum valuation.
IVlr. Carter, of South Carolina, delivered his
sentiments at large on the hill ; when, the
question being put on I\tr. Isaclts’ amendment,
was decided in the negative. Ayes 12—Noes
Mr.Gaziay moved to report the bill as amend
ed, biit, before the question was taken, Mr. Md
Ivnn ottered an amendment laying a duty on
certain articles of morocco leather. The amend
ment wasrejectcd only 40 rising in its favor.
Mr. Clarke’ of New York, then moved to a
meud the duty on iron, by reducing it from# l
l* to 90 cents.—A motion was made to rise.
Ayes 87—Noes 93.
Mr. Clarke then supported his motion by a
speech, but gave way, at half past 4 o’clock
tor a motion to rise. ^
The Committee rose accordingly.
And then the House adjourned.
HOUSE OP REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday April 6
REVISION OF THE TARIFF.
rJ.hc IJ°,nse,th<>n again went into committee
of the whole Mr. Condie'in the Chair, on the
bill to amend the several acts laying duties unwn
imports. 1
Mr. Clark, of New York, who was entitled to
the Moor signified that hcshould waive the farther
course of his observations.
Mr. 1 od, made a few observations on thenre
sent course of the debate; to which Mr. Clark
replied.
Mr. Hamilton, of South Carolina, then com
menced a Speech against the painciplcs of the
bill, which occupied nearly three hours in the
dciiveiy. -
Some remarks then passed between Mr.
Martindulc and Mr. Hamilton, which we have *
nof room here to report.
The question was then taken on Mr. Clark’s
motion to reduce the duty on Har Iron from one
dollar and 12 cents to ninety cents per ton
and decided in the aifirmativc, 99 to 90.
At this lime, and several times in the course
of to-day’s silting, motions were made to rise, all
winch were rejected.
Mr. Bradley, of Vermont, then moved to
amend the bill by inserting therein the follow in>
provision, viz: °
un ail hooks wlucli the importer shall make
it satisfactorily appear lo the collector of the
port at which the same shall be entered, were
printed previous to the year one thousand seven
hundred and seventy-five, anJ also on all books
printed in oilier languages than England, four
cents per volume.
“ °n 1x11 °U»er books, when bound, fortv^fivo
cents per pound.
“ On all other books, when in sheets or boards.,
fort y cents per pound.” *
This motion was negatived without a divi
sion.
Mr. Webster, of Massachusetts, then moved
as an amendment to the bill, the following to
come in at the end of the 5th section.
“l,c further enacted, That from an<l
after the —-- day of- next, the duties
now imposed and payable on the wines, here
in enumerated and described, shall, at their im
portation into the United Slates from any for
eign port or place, cease and determine; and in
lieu thereof, the following rates, or duties res
pectively, shall be laid, levied, and collected
on all such wines, at their said importation that
is to say: Upon all Madeira vinos, 70 cents
per gallon; upon Sherry, St. I.ucar, Lisbon,
Oporto, and all other wines of Spain and Por
tugal, not herein enumerated, 50 cents periral
lon; on Toncrifle and all other wiue of the
Canary Islands, 40 cents per gallon ; on Favaf
and all other wines of the Western Islands 40
cents per gallon ; on Sicily wine, 50 ccnts’pcr
gallon; on Malaga wine, 30 cents per gallon
all other wines, not enumerated in this or some
other law, when imported in bottles or cases
50 per centum ad valorem ; on all other wines
when imported otherwise than in bottles or cases
40 per centum ad valorem: Provided, That tho
amonnt of duty thereupon shall in no case rv
ceed 100 cents per gallon.” ’ *
After some brief debate on this motion it was
decided in the affirmative, ayes 110. ’
Mr. Wicklific then moved to amend the bill
oy inserting therein the following :
“ lie it enacted, That tlie provisions of (he 2d
section oi the act of Congress, entitled ‘An
act to regulate the duties on imports and ton
nage,’approved 27th April. 1816, shall extend
and enure to life benefit of schools andcolhgis
witlnn the United States or the territories there
of, hi the same manner, (under thelike limitations
and restrictions provided in said act,) which they
apply to seminaries of learing.” J
This motion was agreed to, ayes MG.
Mr. Clay then moved to amend the bill by
inserting the following : ’ }
“ On all manufactured copper in sheets and
bottoms of every description, three cents per
pound. 1
1 •n !r* ^,lcn\of Mass, then moved to amend tlic
hill by inserting therein the following :
“ On brown sugar, two cents p<jr°pound ; on
white clavt'd or powdered sugar, three cents per
pound.” 1
This motion was negatived without debat
and without a division.
f,
.1 M,IuU,1-Cr’ of. ^Ta,s' ,hcn mo»ctl to amend
the lull hy inserting.the following:
“On printed books*331 cents per lb.”
This motion, also, was negatived, without a
envision.
Mr. Miller then moved to amend the bill by
inserting ‘‘On mustard in bottles, fifty cents per
dozen. 1 lus motion was negatived.
.i rV!r„San<irorf,‘ ofTenn. then moved to amend
the loll inserting the following:
“•hid be it further enacted, That no debenS
tnre or draw-back shall be allowed to any for
eigner, who is not an inhabitant of tl.o United
States, on any goods, wares, and merchandise,
be may have imported info any of tho aforesaid
United States, or territories thereof,”
I Ins motion was negatived without a division.
Mr. Hayden, of New York, then moved to
amend the bill by striking out the following; “
On wheat /lour, fifty cents per hundred weight ”
and inserting “On wheat (lour, eighty-five cents
per one hundred pounds ”
Tho motion was negaitved, without a divk
lon.
i^Tr. Dayhes, of Muss, then moved to amend the
bill, by inserting “On race ginger, one dollar
per hundred weight; On ground ginger, two
cents per pound.”
’i Ids motion was negatived.
Mr. Conner, of V. C then mftved to strike
nut eighty cents, the proposed minimum vafua
fion of imported wooUru^xM insert, in lieu (here
of, forty cent*.
n.isquestion was decided in the negative by
the (. hair, 0 1 votes to 02; but, a new count b<>
mg demandsand taken, there were ayes 100,
ntios 05; so the motion was decided in the affir
mative.
Mr. Mercer, of Va. then moved to amend
[be bill, by striking out the second section of
the bill; which is in the following words: “Vfflel
'/e. it further enacted, That, in all eases whatso
ever, a!! articles, composed of various materi
als, shall pay the highest dnt/ to which articles
manufactured from any of such materials are
subject.”
Tins motion was, after considerable debate,
JrriffrH in the negative, 99 to 94.
MfMcrcorllitn moved to strike out of the
d. the -Otlulay oi June, (the day on w hich the
>. . t'i .o into effect,1 voj» Li c!e er t? fo a I^ter