1 Whiff.
-. .r. -.®
__ DEMOCRACY—TIIE COSST1TUTION—STATE RIGHTS.
_B_> j'LEAgAN.Tg & ABBOTT _ RICHMOND. VIRGINIA. FRIDAY MORNING. SEPTEMBER'sTTsaal _Tot. VIL—No 60.
jgfre Constitutional m$fg.
jWKDNKSDAY MORNING, SEPT. 1, 1830.
l®"Tbe Salina (Working Men’s; Convention, met
on the S5th August, and nominated Gen Erastus
Root for Governor, and Nathaniel Pitcher for Lieut.
Governor.
. KP The following gentlemen are candidates lbr the
Benate lllR Harrison Bistnct—John G. Stringer,
. Jno. McWhorter, Daniel Kincheloe, James fflcCallyj
Joseph Israel, J. M. Stevnson and Joseph Johnson.
02P The Warrenton (Fauquier) Spectator. Bays.tho
letter published for Mr. Jefferson’s in the Literary
Gabultern, “is a vile electioneering trick, which must
only recoil upon the party, who used it to advance
Mr. Clay’s pretensions.” A just and magnanimous
sentence! Suppose Mr. Spectator revise his proof
sheet, and for “party’’ insert individual. Is he wil
ling to come in for a share of the infamy of the
East Room Letter? Or of the forged commission
from Gen. Washington, used in behalf of Gen Jack
eon, at Ph ladelpoia’ A Dukedom to a denier, the
ditor would consider that a little hard
The same sagacious Editor, after apparently, much
profound cogitation, and learned hnlanoing- of oppo
site accounts, arrives at the following sage conclu
sions in regard to the Kentucky elections:
“I* >8 most probable that if the majority should be
for the Clay over the Jackson party, it is but small,
and cannot be decisive of the political character of
the State at large. Laying all party prejudices aside,
is it rational to suppose that the people of Kentucky
Will afford such a stupendous instance of capricious
Dess, as iu the short period of four years to urn about
and wholly reverse their course, after having given
such uniform, continued, and decided evidences of
their preference for Gen Jackson since lSds. over
Mr Adams; and since 1828. over Mr. Clay personal- .
ly?—It is not probable. Kentucky will, upon all rea
sonable.grounds or alculanon, in the next Presiden
tial eleetion, fjo fo< Jackson. “
He really seems to have succeeded admirably, in
bis laudable efforts to “lay party prejudices aside”—
wendorfully. “A majority for the Clay over the
Jackson party (small) cannot be decisive of tho polit
ical character of the State at large”—and even if the
majority should in the late election have been for
Clay, “Kentucky will, upon all reasonable grounds of
calculation, m rh*» next Presidential election, go for
Jackson." Pro-di gi-ous! A Daniel!
The “stupendous” capriciousness of which the
Spectator speaks ought not to surprise him. Let him
think of Mr. Thomas Ritchie in 1824 and in 1828, and
of certain Federalists whitewashed in Jacbsonism,
ootv teaching old Demoorats, what Democracy means>
and learn to be surpriznd at nothing. The times
abound in marvels, the least wonderful of which is
for more wonderful than that Kentucky should vote
for Henry Clay, as she indubitably will
■P The New Orleans Bee of tbe 17th August,
states that two or three persons bad been attacked
With yellow fever.
QZT Nicholas Biddle, President of the Bank of the
United States, has been recommended as Treasurer
to receive the cent contributions to Pulton’s Heirs
That benevolent and ingenious project has been re
ceived by the public with the most zealous favor, and
will undoubtedly succeed in the fullest manner.
MISSOURI ELECTION. .
The Missouri Republican of August 17, contains
the latest intelligence from ;his State. We find ibe
following paragraph in it:
TUB ELECTION.
Unofficial returns have been received from nearly
all the counties of the State. We shall wait, bow
ever, until the publication of the official statement,
at the seat of Government, shall enable us to name,
with certainty, tbe members of tho General Assem
bly. In »he mean While, the following statement. I
found in the St. Louis Times of Saturday, will show
tbe complexion of the Legislature, as respects the
election of Senator It is our belief, that this calcu- •
lation is too liberal to tho opponents of Mr Barton,
and gives them more votes than they are entitled to.
. We h ave tho best grounds for asserting, that the
changes now going on, in tbe upper counties, will
give Mr Barton, when the election shall take place,
a decided majority. Fifteen of ihe members are
classed as “uncertain;” personally, a majority of these
fifteen, are with us, and they only await instructions
from their constituents, to vote for him These in
structions will he given; and tho ennmios of Mr. Bar
ton will be made to feel tho omnipotence of truth,
and the insufficiency of vulgar and obscene language,
toj>at down an honest and independent man.
In favor of Ur. Barton, 20
©ppo.«od to Mr. Barton, 21
Uncertain, 15
Not heard from, 1
MHSSRS. BARTON ANF> BENTON.
It seem9 from the following, that Mr. Bnrton has
traced the calumny industriously circulated against
bim,of drunkenness in the Senate Chamber, to his
colleague—a result which will occasion no particular
surprise.
(From tbe Missouri Republican.)
The Gilumnialor detected.—The following extracts
of letters from l wo gentlemen, near Chariton, to Mr.
Barton, fix the authorship of the Into vulgar false
hoods of the Beacon, and its kindred presses, upon
the infamous author of the East Room Letter. £mcr
icantis. and the Postscript to the land speech, of Mis
souri Bank, and double mileage memory.
“Chariton, Aug. C, 1030.
“D'jar Sir—Your’sof 25ih ult. has just come to
hand, requesting me to state to you the conversation
of Col. ***** relative to vour having been carried
out of the Senate Chamber drunk. The Col. did
make the statement in my presence, os well as J. 13.
Cylark s, Esq. and other**: and on ray asking him from
whom he derived his information, he gave without
hesitation, VJr. Benton: and stated, if I recollect rio-ht,
that Mr. B'-nton used this language at his own
house in St. Louis, in the presence of a number of c
thcr gentlemen besides himself ”
'•Chariton, Aug. 7lb, 1830.
“In answer to your note of the 29th ult., Col. lion
ton did say, in my presence, that you was carried out
of the Senate Chamber, last session, like a sack,
by two men.”
Col. Benton also charges Mr. Barton with con
stant intemperance in the U S. Senate.
We are authorised by Mr. Barton to pronounce
the statements of Col. Bcmon, wit.fct., dember
Ate, and JMEfcrocs PAT.egnyovs; and to eay, tint
he will once more, in defence of his own character,
impale Col. Benton on high, as a convicted calumnia
tor, however' unpleasant such acts of self-prcscrva
tiou are.
•Mr. Barton.—Tbo talent and chivalry of this gen
tleman, the malevolence with which he is viewed by
Power, and the efforts of its pensioned band to put
him down, have awakened in a high degree, tho inte
rest of the Public. It will be seen that he is stem
ming the current with a bold and daring hand, and
that he is likely to reach the shore in safety.
Prom the Missouri Republican.
Information lias been received verbally, and by let
ter, from several of the Boon's Lick Counties, from
which it is apparent that great changes are going on
in that section of the Slate. The feverish excite
ment which prevailed in that region, is rapidly giving
place to a more temperate and healthful state ofpub
uc feeling. The disgraceful trammels of party disci
pline are broken, and the liue of separation which,
two years ago, dieplayed itself, broad and black, be
tween the contending parties, is fading away; and in
two years more, the keenest political eye will be una
ble to trace it Mr. Barton is received every whore
with the most flattering testimonials of respect. The
nniform independence and uprightness of his politi
cal course, and the bright display of genius exhibited
in lus speeches in Congress and since his return home,
have wrought a miracle in the public heart. In
Counties where, eight months ago, no man durst wag
a tongue in his defence, he is now a favorite The
mist of prejudice is blown aside, and the people begin
again to see him as he is. an honest man—a safe and
arm statesman—un orator, whose glowing eloquence
reflects a credit upon tne State which employs him
After accept.ng a public dinner in Boone County,
(the account of which we have already published,)
he received the same honor from the people of How
ard On the latier occasion, his address was deliver
ed to700 citizens, and is said to have been one of his
happiest efforts, and to nave met with the happiest
success, in correcting the asperities of party feeling,
and in convincing the moderate and patriotic of all
parties, that it is a folly to devote ourselves to names
instead of things, and a crime to prefer a man, or a
party, to the great principles and interests of the
country. Fie has been invited to a public dinner at
Lexington, in Lafayette County, and it is said lias
delivered speeches, with great eflfcct,in Chariton and
Saline.
Our neighbor of the Beacon lately proclaimed, that
Mr. Barton's defeat was aa certain as any future e
yent. Now, were it not that no prophet is honored
in his own land, wc would reverse the prophecy, and
say, that nothing short of a miracle can prevent his
success. We know that the faction is still trying all
its arte, and that no efforts will be left unattempted,
to drag him down The most ruthless calumnies are
propagated in the teeth of truth, and in defiance ef
frequent refutation: and no sooner is one monster of
falsehood crushed, than others sprout forth, like the
hydra’s beads. The electors are appealed to through
their basest passion and most sordid motives. They
are given to understand that the general administra
tion is particularly anxious for Mr. Ba ton’s defeat,
and would be sure to remember those who contribu
ted to his downfall. The various land offices, and the
warm, snug quarters of the Indian Department, are
placed in tempting array before them. It ia even ru
mored, that certain gentlemen, not an hundred miles
j from the steam boa1 landing have been trying to con
■ vinco a worthy Senator narth of the Missouri, that
be is. admirably qualified for an Indian Agency, and
that if hr can only give a proof af his zeal and devo
: tion, it would be easy to nust a certain coalition ageut
on tho Missouri. Gen. Green, too. it is reported, has
declared that Bartou'a re-election would injure him
to tho amount of ^10 000 It may be so; and yet we
cansoarcely believe that the Missouri Legislature
will elect a senator with the sole view of procuring
General Green’s rc-election to tbe office of public
printer!
lET’At a meeting of the Saluda Baptist Association
be ween the 7th and 9th of August, a day was set
apart for fasting, humiliation and prayer, in conse
quence of the present threatening condition of public
affairs, between tbe State of S. Carolina and the
Union We annex the Resolutions:
RESOLUTIONS
Of the Saluda Baptist Association, passed at their late session,
beld at Neele’s Creek Churr.h, in Anderson’s District, 3 C
from the 7th to the 9th of August, 1830
Resolved, 1st That the present onhappy state of things in
the aflaiisof the General Government, relating to the 'Tariff
and Internal Improvement, demands our serious aftd prayerful
attention as men, as patriots, and as Christians. We disclaim
all intermeddling in the political views which aro entertained
by our statesmen and citizens at large. We carefclly avoid the
attempt to exert any influence by the expression of our own
opinions, on either side of the divided state of public sentiment,
in relation to the measures of the General Government. As a
religious body, onr views have regard to wbat may bo the sad
results of the present course of things in a political, moral,
and religious point of light. Considering that our dearest
rights, and the integrity, the unbroken whole, of tho United
States are in jeopardy, it becomes us as Christians to approach
tbe throne of the Most High, in supplicate bis aid tor tbe pre
servation of those blessings, which he has so munificently pour
ed out upon iis
Resolved, 2dly—That tbe 4th Saturday in September (tho
next month) bo set apart for fasting, humiliation and prayer.—
Whitt cm ibis day the churches of this Association be requested
to assemble at their respective places of worship, for the per
formanc* of these holy duties. And, that, in their observance
special reference be had to the state of onr beloved country,
that God may be pleased to pardon oor national and individual
sins, and pour out his restraining and enlightened spirit upon
all our citizens, that they may be taught from on high, and,
guided by heavenly instruction, pursue that course in the present
alarming state of affairs, which duly and safety require
Resolved. 3dly.—That Christians of all denominations be,
; and they are hereby requested to urite in their respective pla
: ces of worship, with our Churches on the day above named,
for the name objects, in tbe observance of (he same duties —
: Aod that the citizens of the State generally be, and they are
; hereby, requested to abstain from earthly avocations on the
ramo day, and attend upon the duties which tho Lord’s people
; may observe for tbe attainment of the important objects in
' view.
Resolved, 4thly.—That a copy oftbesc resolutions be forward
i ed to tho Governor of the State, with a respectful communica
• lion from the Moderator of this Body, requesting him to rccoru
mend to the citizens in general, the observance of tbe 4th Sat
! urday in September, (the next month) as a day of fasting, hu
miliation and prayer; that we may all, with uni'ed voice and
i feeling, humble ourselves before our Maker, and fervently
supplicate his beneriiction upon us and out country, that we
i may have a happy issue out of all our troubles.
Resolved. fttbly.—That the Moderator be requested to give
I general publicity to the abo^e resolutions.
' . CO- K ditors of papers friendly to the object of these resolu
tions are requested, throughout the State to give them ns ma
ny insertions as they please until the day appointed for the
fast.
From tho Correspondent of the N. V Commercial Advertiser.
Sauna. 25t!i Aug., 1830.
The long agony is over. The Convention of the
i Working Men have nominated
GEN. KRASTUS ROOT, for Governor.
NATHL PITCHER, for Lieut. Governor.
It was done by acclamation: there was not one dis
! senting voice. The convention was much more full
■ than anticipated, and not excelled for respectability
and talent by any one cvei held in this State—the
unanimity of fcclinff and action was astonishing.
The country is alive in our cause, and our candi
; datcswill be elected
In Philadelphia on Saturday, after the receipt of
j the English news to tho 19th tilt, ho’dora of Flour
I asied go 12^ per fob!.
THURSDAY MORW1IVG, SEPT. 8, 1830.
M riie Norfolk Herald of Sunday, contains the
following paragraph:
The tVestcm Elections —The Jackson pi pen claim a deci
ded majority in the Missouri Legislature, aud, indeed, from aU
we have seen, we think it probable that Mr. Baton will not be
re elected to the United States’ Senate. It is iripossible to de
termine from the contradictosy statements of tie papers rela
tive to the Kentucky elections, whether that State is most for
Jackson or Clay—we incline to the belief, howsver, that Mr.
Rowan will be re elected—lu Indiana aud lllimis, all is as
yet, in uncertainty.
Another Daniel! A majority for Mr Clay in the
Kentucky Legislature 'a majority admitted byseve
sal of the moderate Jackson prints) “intlines him to
the belief’ that Mr. Rowan will be reelected! A
decided preponderance for Barton as far as the Mis
souri returns have come in (a majority declared by
the St Louis Times, a Jackson paper' makes him
think it “probable, that Mr. Bartoo will not be re
elected.” Verily, we have not seen each faith—no,
not in all Israel. The friends of the worthy Editor,
who have their eye upon hint, must be vastly edified
at the striking improvement his vision has undergone
since 1828
TVe perfectly understand our 'espected brother of
the Herald. We are amiliar with all the signs
which prelude a political eumraereett—damning old
friends witn faint praise, the discovery of recondite
virtues in former adversaries, the affectation of per.
feet impartiality, the cant of moderation, the assump
i ^on excessive candor. Our brother is a free man
and has a right to turn a summersett every day in
the week. He is also a clever fellow and no doftbt
knows his own reasons for the change. Let us not
be thought capable of the presumption of prescribing
to him or any other Iree man, the way he ought to
go; bat we have the right to purge the ranks of a no
ble and patriotic cause if we can, of the worst foes
which any cause can have—enemies in the guise of
friends. We have the right to ask the Editor of the
Herald to declare his present sentiments, and not to
injure a cause in the number of the supporters of
which pablic opinion has erroneously classed him, by
permitting the misapprehension to remain uncorrec
ted. Thi9 was the game of the snarling hypercritic
Walsh, which has justly drnwn upon him the distrust1
of all parties. „ The original friend of Mr. Adnms, he
affected diplomacy, and ascribed tho defeat of his
aspirations to the influence of Mr. Clay. Professing
continued attachment to the former, and wishes for !
his re-election, his goad word was never wanting for i
Jackson, nor an opportunity omitted of dealing Mr.
Adams a sly stab under the fifth rib, nor of chilling
the zeal of his friends by evary sinister and prudish
artifice. Against the fatal influence of such friends
we wish to guard a cause dear to us almost, as our
country itself. Our brother of Norfolk, we respect
fully suggest, is not qualified by his ability, to play
tho Walsh of Virginia—and we boldly affirm, that
his general frankness of dispositioo, wholly’unfits him
for the Jesuitical task* His gallantry wo axe sore,
will promptly respond to tho appeal "to shew bis
colors.” and upon remonstrance, disdain tho profit of
longer seeming- wbat he is not.
We trust that wc shall not be thought to ha re
overstepped the bounds of courtesy, or ibe limits of
fair play. We have heretofore felt pride in combat
ing, side by side, with the Norfolk Herald, and now
feel more regret at the meandenegs of its late course,
than apprehension at the prospect of meeting it in
open warfare. °
___ I
Anti-Masonry—and Masonry in Virginia,
Our neutral brother of the fljurfolk Herald, thinks
he can make no mistake in visiting the Ami Masons
; with bis ire, there bo;ag yot awhile, whatever there
may be in time, no Anti-Masonic party as such, in
Virginia. Quoting some remarks of this paper upon
tho General Ann—Masonic Convention nt Philadel
phia, he subjoins the following comments of his own:
‘•How their influence may bo disposed ef we neither know
oor care; it is sufficient for us to denounce their purpose, as a 1*
together at war with the fundamental principles of free govern
ment, as it is with common sense. In wbat country has liberty,
morals, or religion suffered by tolerating Masonry?" From what
country has Masonry been expelled, or in wbat age has it suf
fered persecution that is not characterised by its iron despotism
and abject ignorance. And yet, to our free and enlightened
Republic, a combination is formed, nod atmins to strengthen
ttsctf by the acquisition of political power, to put down Mason
ry, an institution tolerated and protected equally with all others
by our wise and wholesome laws, and winch boasts among its
member!, tho greatest and best men of every age. Is not this
alarming to the patriot who watches with sleepless solicitude
every aspect of our “great political experiment,” upon which
rests the hopes of millions? Is it not enough to shake tho con
fidence of the friends of civil liberty throughout the world ru
the permanency of our political institutions which they have
fondly held in view as the beau ideal of a free government?—
We warn our fellow citizens at large to avoid all contact with
this political pestilence—but above all, we would conjure them
to hold no communion with the monster for party ends,—for
though it may insure their accomplishment, the unhallowed
connection will be fatal to our liberties.”
We have here another instance of our brother's
excessive timirhty, indicative of a summersett alrea
dy thrown, or secretly determined upon. He “cau
tions our fellow citizens at large, to avoid all contact
with this political pestilence”—abovcall ho “conjures
them to hold no communion with the monster for par
ty purposes.” Whether the worthy editor’s cautions
and conjurations have been called forth by raal dis
gust, wi h Anti-Masonry, or by the probability that
the Anti-Masons will support Uenry Clay, it were
bootless to enquire
The uneasiness forRour liberties” from Anti-Ma
sonry, betrayed by the editor of the Herald , is farci
cal. A citizcD is dragged from his homo and the
embraces of his family in the dead of night, by the
fanatical myrmidons of a secret institntion—murder
ed, or so disposed of that he is never heard of again—
all this is perpetrated in a country of laws, which tho
conspirators successfully set nt defiance, and bailie
by their secret obligations, tho agent* of public jus
tice, for years together—all this, fails to make the
slightest impression upon the nerves of our brother of
Norfolk! When the people rise in their majesty to
reform an enormous evil which exposes every man io
society to a dark and mysterious fate—an evil be
yond the euro of ordinary remedies—when they are
led by many of I he most distinguished patriots, whose
well tried lives prove the purity of their ends and the
I ^jciptCTCcTcdnc?3 of tlicir zeal—when the acarj y
sed, n fleet do man's liberty, take away no man’s life,
but are the means which eoligntened patriotism has
prescribed in the Constitution itself; the polls and the
ballot box—then it is, that the nerves of our brother
of Norfolk become agitated, and his love of country
alarmed, at the prospect of the loss of public liberty!
We would attempt the task of consolation, did we not
know that sensitiveness so exquisite, is wilful and
will not be comforted.
We have no inclination to introduce the party dis
tinctions of MQeonry and Anti-Masonry, in Virginia.
We arc Masons ourselves—attached to the Institu
tion in its purity—and know its basis, to be one of
holy and expanded benevolence. Like every thing
else, it has come in time, to be wrested from its ori
ginal designs, and contaminated with the spirit of
charlatanerie, which is a characteristic of the age.—
Modern Masons tuus* be deeper read in its mysteries,
than the ancient illuminati of the order. Enthusi
asts misconceive its designs, and innovate upon its
rules, and fana ics ore not wanting to wade through
blood and trample on the laws of God aad man, in
the execution of its imaginary behests. Here is in
deed, cause for alarm That social condition is truly ,
alarming, when citizens committing no offence known
to tho laws, and in disregard of the sacred shield
which they interpose for the protection of the peison,
are forcibly abducted from their homes at midnight,
murdered, or spiriteiaway, no man knows whither
Whatever doty we owe, and are ready cheerfully to
pay to the order of Free Masonry, we owe still high
er obligations to onr conntry, and will forever ex
claim against such a state of things os this. From
the best information in our possession. JUasjnry in
New York, is a very different thing from Masonry in !
Virginia—nor does hostility to the former conflict
with the allegiance we acknowledge ourselves to owe
the latter. Virginia Masons revolt at the fate of
Morgan, nor is it possible for a counterpart of that,
infernal tragedy to be acted on the soil of the mother
of Liberty. To the point of suppressing the corrup
tions which procured tho fate of Morgan—our voice
shall be raised to cheer the exertions of the Anti
Masons—regardless of the admonitions of overstrain
ed patriotism, ox the “conjurations” of a fastidious
purity.
[Cr In reply to the statement of the N Y. Courier
Sz Enquirer, that Mr McCord, editor of the Colutn
bia Telescope, had been despatched on a political
mission to England, by Dr. Cooper, the Telescope of
Aug. 27th,says:
“To answer each and every calumny of every scoun
drel who chooses to iudulge in reckless falsehood a
gainst the prominent patriots who have stepped for
ward in defence of the rights of the States, would be
endless. To defend (it says,) David J McCord from
sucb accusations, arising ftomauch a source, promul
gated by such a paper, would indeed be a work of su
pererogation-’’
Another opportunity is thus a£hrd*d the Lteote
aunt, of displaying bis warlike p r: r fit »•
advise him to lei the Bdi.agsg&r* rg.et. u ax varf&j
his notice. The Telescope sxe* :t, us; nr nnl lo
cation perishing in tl? n—j si . ic'.li—-lir aoo -raxt
reserved for the fate of U-- r-c Corvmttuu—
and somethmg ought to be mtc-igei *.x ;.ru* xesrv nr
mor whicli these reflections nilaraZy i*-gt. I wnnu
be almost a pity that the Lieutenant shouJi srmit La
distinguished valor on subjects already so minh ex
pressed by unpropitiousfortune.
SALINA CONVENTION.
There were two sets of Delegates from tbo coun
ty of New York to the Salina Convention-—'Thoso
stigmatized as the “Coffin handbill” men were ad
mitted, the others unanimously rejected by the Con
vention. The Evening Journal, tbo organ of tho
true working men, observes:
S A (.IN A CON VENTlON.—Tbo only news which we bar
received from Salma, is contained io the following extract of a
letter, addressed to a gentleman io ibis cily, and dated August
25, at 5 o’clock in the evening:—
“I seize one moment tnpve you n lioc by my friend, tvbo is
going in the boat. General Hoot is unanimously nominated
Governor, wilh General Pilcher, Licutoi am Governor The
Delegation of tbo Minority from our cily lias bacn teje' ted
without one dissenting voire More than one hundred Dele
gates were present, and ar overwhelming multitude of speem
tor9. The good feeling existing iD the Convention, and our
strength throughout the counties of the State, surpasses tho
most sanguino expec itions, even more than could lie imagined
Our success is now certain Mr Townsend was chosen Chair
man.”
WEST INDIA TRADE.
The Telegraph of Monday contains the following:
We have been favored with the following extract
of a letter from a gentleman in New-Yorfc, to hia
friend in this City dated
Acoupt* 27, 18(>0.
“Captain Rogers is below in the Caledonia, sailed
from Liverpool 19th July. He brings the glorious
news that the fFeel India Porta arc to be opened on
the 1y< of January
The National G.v/ettc of Saturday has the follow
ing:
Extract, of a letter, dated
“New-York. Ang 27—2 o'clock.
“One of ofir most respectable houses here, has re
ceived private letters by tho Caledonia, below, an
nouncing the opening of tho British West Indies to
our flag.
"Half Paul 2 o'clock.
“I open tins to confirm the above—The Ports
are Orr.w.”
The news may bn true, but it is more probably, a
stock or rathcr./Io!/r jobbing, fabrication The New .
York papers, which furnish copious supplies of for
eign news brought by tho Caledonia, say not a word
about this—an emission nlmost incredible, were ihe
news authentic. In tho House of Commons on the
7th July, Mr Robinson inquired of Ministers if the
negotiations with the IT. States with respect to the
Canadas, (by winch the N Y. Press understands the
colonial ncyitiationa* had been bronght to a close—
and Mr. Peel replied that negotiations were pending,
but had not be«n brought to a conclusion. The Col
•donia brought intelligence to the 18th from London.
The National Gazotte is however cautions, and
must have been satisfied of the correctness of its in
formation. Wo 6tato the probabilities, and leave
those concerned, to draw their own conclusions. The
instant effect in Philadelphia, was ua advance of a
dollar a barrel in flour.
the Baltimore American.
BaiTisB Colonial Toadk —We do not find a»y
confirmation of the fact of the reported opening tit
the British West India port* to tbe trade of the Bni
ted States. In tbe British House of Commons on the
7tb July, in reply to a question asked by ffir. Robin
son relative to the state of the negotiations with tbe
Baited States for throwing open tho West Indio
Trade, Sir Robert Peel stated that negotiations were
in progress, but bad not yet been brought to a final
condusion Tbe editor of the New Yuri Albion
thinks that this admission is the tbreronuer to an an
i nunciation of an arrangement between the two Gov.
ernmente for the opening of the Colonial ports. The
sume journal, which bos always been the steady ad
vocate of the British Colonial interests, makes tbe
following statements and admissions on rh« subject,
all of which would seem to show that tbs final or
raoaemeots are near their oomplelion.
‘•It has bean recently stated, and upon the best
authority, that tbe agent for Slew Brunswick io Lon
don, Mr BiifiH. had commumeated to his friends in
that province his apprehensions that tbe ports would
be opened in September nesi We have also in oyr
possession private information is relation to JBLr. JBc
Lane’s negotiations which lead os to tho aame cnncln
sion Unper ell those circtunstanoes, we should be
wanting in dot]K to our Colonial frit odd, if we did cot
distinctly intimate to them that tbe chances of this
trade remaimug closed are materially dtmished._
But most of the accounts, nevertheless, concur loaf
firming that whatever changes may tako plow; in iho
shipping trade, the general inteteste of thpnorthern
provinces will be steadily kept io view by bis Majes
ty’s Government For this purpose it is intended to
impose what is termed a protecting duty on all articles
which can be furnished by Nova Scotia. Hew Bruns
wick, &.c.. when taken into the West India ports from
those of the United States. It is further stated that
a requisition will bo imposed obliging American Ves
sels to tako away the amount of their outward bound
cargoes io the produce of tbe Islands, Such a regn
lation might possibly be of utility m enabling the West
Indies to carry on a barter trade, ni?d thereby reliev
ing themselves of much of their auperfluoa produce
in return tor articles of the first necessity. We take
leave of thr* subject cow, expressing our belief that bis
Majesty’s Ministers have acted with the best feelings
towards tbs Colonies, and have beea actuated by toe
paramount motive of protecting tho interests of tho
empire at large. We do not think that tbe opposi
tion to this measure exists to tbe anient that it did a
few months since.”
From the Ohio State Journal of Augnst 2G.
LN DIANA.—The account given io our last paper,
of the favorable resalt of the recent election in t.Hm
respectable Suite. is fully confirmed.—The last num
ber of the Farmer, published at Indianapolis, by oor
old acquaintance Geo. Smrru. a ci-decant Jack
sonian, thus notices the termination of the contest:—
“THE DOGS DEAD.
We have heard from a goodly number of the conn
• ies in this Slate, and it appears'from ike result, tliar
Jacksonism has bid farewell to Indiana. So mote it
be."
Disunion—A Kingston (Upper Canada) paper says;
“We have given further extracts from American pa
pers, illustrative of the ill bluud which r»-igns in the
Southern Stales We hope they will b* attentive
ly read and considered. VVimnever the crisis of sep
aration arrives, rohuh me thank ualjur Aasak tho re
will be enough tor all ha:.ds o do; tl will entirely
alter the relation oi flionf Orris is trifk this conti
nent. sad tbs rhaiiy viL be, to bs. imacrseiy oeo>
©AruA “
ItT A tom £~vea tbs Ckarisstitru Eb?j Press, dated
U£ CS. r--T—* fcll-«r.^ account of the Ebtecn
tuu. af SuiiAncra.* ^T. Vaa
Frees. Or?*a. i
CiAT ss* an, A up *0. I«30. <
ESSCTTTOX OF RtBStF'JAR YT. COX,
Fv c.lj .Ht-znoer «f Cat. Dunn.
T;*e sxcoaa.ua ni cat '.rtuiuu yeatb, took
p-cce ywasersay a: precisely bait past 1 a'clock. PJot
iess man >oOO p©r>*-ms -*o«- proses'—maoy of them
from a considerable disiansa—and it is ho: justice to
say. that wo have Dover seen *e large an assemblage
behave with mure propriety —Burmg the solemn
preparation at rhe -on&Ud, a death-like ctdlneas pro
vailed, and a fooling of <ioep sympathy si^med to
throb in every bosom- Ho met bis fate with great
firmness. anil hiraueU gave the signal to rot tho drop
fall wind) launched bis so J into Che World tf spirits.
He admunishcd from lb* pisiform, in as aodibde and
unfelioring voiae. the young naan present ogaiast an
iiuiolgenco in the soul destroying bn has of gpokbUng
and dissipation. ThougJi he gave evident tokens of
inlernnl agony, and prayed fervently to (Lo Throne
of Mercy, vot he maintained his eoJ^-posEosaaon to tho
end. without change of colour qt fas ore* e~4 survey
ed with serutinbaug eye the vast crowd which hod
gathered to wi'ness bto ignominious exit* inobtag m
vain, as be said. for his “pretended Sneads,” by whoso
evil suggestions he had booa hkond to ran.
He died without a Htrugjpir—Ar only indications of
8ufR»iingr which he oxtuliuad, were, during the fir^t
three minu'ow, flvn or sis slightly ooavnhcve shrugs
of his ah- nldera Lie wav suspended ab*m; half uo
hour, when his body wns cnaveyod shout a roil© out
of town, and given over to his relatives for interment
in Loudoun. Be was attended in his last moments
by the Rev. Br («s.dea and the Ik*v. Mr Obacf.,
of tho CntboBc Church—lb* former of whom had
been visiting bhn for the last five, months with pious
assiduity
U*' has fett a romtre canroKsmn. m are own band
writ ng, of tin- circutnst.-incoH cronnccaod with tho
murder, in which he perseveres hi implieatfag those
persons whom he bad formerly oorrrsmt as toe mo
ver* and acdossariBs of the foul deed.
A more detailed statement of thehorriblo scene*
will be given in onr paper of Wednesday next.
Notwithstanding tbo distress of the poor hay oaken from Ira
land, m ennserpienre of the want of emnlojmont, their per.O
liar humor has not abandoned them ••You’ve a oowld, Mrs.
Leary, dear?” said one of them to ber crony, lad week at Ac
ton.—“Indeed, and its tbrue for you, Mr» :\1ahon?”--“AncJ
where would you got that honey?*—“fiore, and I slept last
night m the Geid, and forgot to shut the gate nowf”— London
paper.
The following are the drawn numbers of tho C
nion Canal Lottory, <#)hrh 13.
37 6 53 £1 23 32 2 33 68.
6. 37, 93, the Ornnd Capital of j|20,000, was sent
fr'm the Malingers’ Cffir© to Mr Wm. Biggos, a
V' ntler in Lynchburg. Va
Tire. CoNsTm-rrosAi. Warn is published twice a week,
(Timvlays and Fridays,) at 6ve dollars per anrmuT), payablo
in advance
For advertising—75 rents a sqtrare (or levs) for the first
insertion, and 50 cents for each rontm.uanee — t he number of
inseritons most be noted on the Mb. otherwise they will bs
continued and ebar^d accordingly.
All letters to the Editors must be pn«i paid, er they will
receive no attention.
Notes of chartered specie paying Ranks of any of the^foies
will be received in payment for subscription to the Whig,
though Virginia or U Srates Bank Notes yuruld be preferred;
and remittances can be made through tho Post Office at the i&
oft ho Editors.
Previous to a discontinuance of the paper, all arreataiges
1 must be nairl \rr And those who mat Wish to discontinue,
• ,will nottfv the Editors to that effect at feast thirty dayfbeEJ;*
‘ Cut tJxdi^i vTftib