|V " i t our inititutians h.ubwn apprbv
|V by experience for the mere suggest ions nf um icd
^mtoty. Believing that for the solemn and extraor
H nar7 purpose of reproseiUing them hi a full sove
H.'tgn convention thoy will select tl»e most enhghten
■A e*peri«iiced and prudent citizens, I foar not tba
^result, and will act accordingly.
\ Th« existing Constitution was “ speedily adopt
' 041 ’ ‘he spur of the occasion. Since its adoption,
not only has the sovereign and independent State of
Kentucky been carved out of its population and ter
ritory, but the Constitution of the United States has
<ome into existence; and both have operated a
change on our Constitution as it was adopted. In
ihe progress of nail a dentury there lias been nearly
an entire change of population ; and in the menu*
time large portions of the people have proposed the
call of a Convention, and witl.but effect; for the
t ‘institution has provided1 no mums or mode for its
own amendment.—The consideration of those cir
< eimtancemparticularly the last, seem of themselves,
and without regard to any or other defect, redun
dancy or imperfections in the constitutional act, to
justify the call of a Convention. But to this may be
added a further Consideration. In tlic 13fh section,
by the carelessness of a clerk in transcribing, or by
what is worse, the fraudulent erasure of part of a
latter, not only is the general propriety of expression
employed by the Framers of the Constitution viola
ted, but against their manifest policy, the Governor
seems to be authorized to wuivc, cveu in time of
peace, the recommendation by the county courts of
those to be commissioned as officers of the militia, or
having such recommendation, to disregard the ad
vice of the Privy Council. The irregularity and
contusion resuiting from this circumstance, require
to be obviated. But I would avoid, as 1 think the
previous sectional meetings ought, all consideration
of the topics iu detail, which a revision of the Con
covw%iT>t> s «m«wl Tuu will best confided
to those whom the good people of Virginia shall ap
point to the high trust of revising their fundamental
law. In the meantime I would observe as to the
rule of suffrage since it has been made an object of
notice, and waiving any opinion upon the fitness of
the rule, that the framers of the Constitution mere
ly intended, that as the law-giving department of
the government acts on persons and property, respect
should be had to property in the selection of persons
to compose it: and, therefore, they assumed the soil
as the representative of all other property, bein? ab
solutely identified with the sovereignty and a free
hold in the soil us a fit qualification.—l know not
whether sagacity or accident produced this rule, (I
■to not say right) but if legislation be founded on
just principles and traced from its source in its ap
plication to all objects, it will be difficult to invent
another so duiable, equal and unexceptionable.
GIVIS.
From ihe Enquirer.
CONTENTION MEETING.
The meeting of the Citizens of Richmond on
Saturday Evening was uumerous and respec
table. The discussion continued near four hours.
It was spirited ai\l interesting. We shall briefly
sketch the points and proceedings.
On Mr. Scott’s motion, Dr. Adams (the .May
or) was called to the Chair ; and Mr. John Rn
therfoord was appointed Secretary.
•Mr. Winsto.n addressed the meeting; but we
were not in a situation to note down his remarks.
Mr. JIJuatford rose in favor of a Convention.
He observed that our constitution was the first
which had ever keen formed by the people,
according to our ideas of a constitution. It was
formed in the midst of a Revolution with the
sword at our throats. Was it surprising, that
the experience of fuity years should have de
monstrated that it was defective ? .Might we
not be excused for the presumption of attempt
ing to amend it? Fortunately its framers had
laid down certain principles in the Rill of Rights
by which if we regulated our course, we could
scarcely err^—They had declared the indubita
ble right of the people “ to reform, alter or abo
lish” their form of governineut whenever “it
should he found inadequate or contrary to the
purposes”of its institution. The only question
was, whether from the practical effects of the
present constitution it was found to stand in
need of amendment ? The whole question w *.s
then narrowed down to a point offact. If it had
proved defective, it was our right and our duly
as freemen and as citizens of Virginia, to think
and act for ourselves. We live in a country,
where our constitutions can be as readily a
rneoded as our ordinary laws. Our situation
is very different from that of Revolutionary.
France, whose constitutions were accompanied
by bloodshed. Our Sister Slates have set us the
example. They have frequently amended by
Conventions called in a peaceable manner
Mr. M. did not conceive that any man ought to
be called a disorganize^ or a radical, for at
tempting a change of onr constitution. Though
he had a persoual interest in things remaining
as they are (beiug Clerk of the II. of Delegates
for many years,)yet he adhered to the principles
which he had advocated in this //all iu 1G00.
-He had th :n supported a Convention, as u De
legate of the people. He hoped his interests
could not swerve his priuciolcs. His maxim
was, Fiatjustia, ruat cerium.
•Mr. J\[. then proceeded to state that in bu
liumblc opinion the present constitution was de
tective in all its three great branches. He
objected both to the manner of electing the
members of the Legislature, and to the manner
of exercising their power after they were elected.
As to the first, he was not satisfied with the
principle of suffrage. He was not an advo
cate of universal suffrage; but was it not a
hardship, that your principal merchants, who
were permanently settled in the commonwealth
with their families and their properly, should be
denied the privilege of a vote, when a man for a
trifle, for a mere song, can exercise a freehold
fotc? For his own part he was disposed to ex
tend the right ofsuffrage, within certain bounda
ries. He objected in the next place to llie ra
tio of representation in the counties. Every
county had its two delegates, no matter what
was iU size, whether it was a pigmy like War
wick, or a giant like Loudoun. This inequali
ty wa4 contrary to the principles laid down in
f!m Bill of Eights. The representation ought
to be regulated by the free population, unless
indeed we took in the 3-i>ths of the slaves, ac
cording to the federal arrangement: Yet any
modification was better than the present svstem.
As to the Legislative body itself, he contended
lUat it was too numerous. If its numbers were
reduced from 300 lo 100 the people would take
care to send more discreet aud deliberative
men; the business would not be mirried over,
and much of it reserved till the close of the
session; the laws might he more wisely framed,
aud the expenses of the government would be
considerably reduced.
Mr. M. proceeded to analizc the F.recufirt
Department. He could not conceive the ne
cessity of an Executive Council. Why not
trust the Governor with the exercise of the
powers now vested in that department ? If he
wanted Counsel, why should lie not take advice
of the Auditor in questions of law ? Sec. There
would then be more responsibility in the De
partment. One councillor could not then say,
“ I was not present when such a measure was
adopted,” nor another plead the same excuse.
The tenure by which they hold their office is
also liable to exception.—Though two of the
members are subjected to a scratch every third
year, yet if in the mean time they should neg
lect or violate their duties, how are they to be
removed?
Mr. M. objected to the Judiciary department,
th,it it was excessively complicated. We have
courts, tier above tier, from the county to the
chancery courts, and thence up to the court of
appeals. Justice is not so speedily administered
a$ol ought to be. For his own part, he would
abolish the chancery courts, and do away the
distinction between courts of law and courts of
*. nity. The cjgmtnMi law courts « hey vcstol
witfa chancery powers, might invent new procct*
*e« for expediting the administration of justice.
They employ the trial of jury, so deservedly field
in reverence by all. Yet it was strange, that
the fnuners of the constitution, though they had
declared m the Bill of Rights tliat *» Uie antieut
trial by jury is preferable to any oilier, and
ought to be held sacred,** yet they had gone on
toestablisliJcliHiicery courts whichdispcused with
this invaluable privilege.—These courts are
dilatory in the last degree. He was disposed
to give to tfio common law courts the chancery
power, where we might freely enjoy tho benefit
of vic<t voce testimony and jury tri.d.
Mr. M. said these- defects were sufficient to
point out tho necessity of amendment. Some
gentlemen may indeed say, that it was better
“ to bear the ills wo have, than fly to others
that we know not of.” But lie was not afraid
to trust the people. Some of our wisest patri
ots, some of the men of *76, would be found in
the Convention. Lot it not be said, that we are
unfit to be trusted as our fathers were ; that the
love of money and the love of ease have corrupt
ed us. However strongly this exception may
apply to certain individuals, yet the mass of the
people were still pure. It is too late in tlie
day to revive the exploded doctrine, that the
people were their own worst enemies. This
language is better suited to the Holy Alliance
of fc.uropc, than to the meridian of America.—
The people have a right to choose for themselves.
—Our Bill of Rights recommended “ a frequent
recurrence to fundamental principles,” and for
his own part, be was willing to recur to first
principles, lie concluded by moving the fol
lowing resolutions:
Resolved, As the opinion of this meeting that
a c»ra»*invj'wv ought umriediaiciy u* called
by the people for the purpose of omendiug the
constitution of this state.
Resolved, That a committee be appointed to
report to a Meeting hereafter to be convened,
the best practicable means of promoting the
views ef the meeting.
Mr. P. N. Nicholas rose in opposition to the
resolution. lie contended that Mr. Jl/uuford
contemplated the subversion of the whole con
stitution, under which we had lived for nearly
half a century—a constitution, which had been
formed by some of the most virtuous patriots
who had lived in any age or nation ; and when
the people were at least as intelligent and as
pure, as we are. Yet to what conclusion does
Mr. M. at last arrive? that the framers of our
constitution have overlooked a few things ; that
there aresotne defects to be remedki? Oh no !
but that a radical change in the whole system is
necessary.—No one in this country was afraid
to trust the people ; or to amend the constitution
when it was radically defective. But if, as the
gentleman says, we may change our constitution
as easily as our laws, we shall soon be m the si
tuation of revolutionary France ; where the
constitution was changed as readily as a gar
ment—and a new one was formed at least every
three mouths.—Now, Jtfr. N. contended, one
great advantage of a constitution was found in
the solidity of its establishment; that it was
something more sacred than an ordinary law.
Gentlemen may decry theconstitulion, because
it was old—but is not this one of thereasons why
•vc should be Cautious in touching.it ? We have
lived under it, in war and in peace—wc have
llourishcd under it: Shall we rashly change it ?
The gentleman indeed contends that the very
Bill of Rights recognizes the right of the people
to change it; but does he sufficiently understand
this provision ? Are we to change the constitu
tion for light and trivial causes ? Consult the
voice of experience. Look at the records of;
History. Look at the Lycurguses, and Solous j
of antiquity. Say, what lawgiver has ever
formed a system which was so pure and perfect
as not to present some defects ? It is only when
these defects become glaring and oppressive,
that an amendment ought to be made. It is
only extreme evils that require this extreme
remedy. The gentleman says, he was for a
convention in 11100; but have we mt b<«v
happv under our constitution since that time ?
And if it had been’changed then, who can gua
rantee that the gentleman himself won Id not at
this moment be crying out for new reforms ?—
W bat great benefit do we promise ourselves
from a Convention ? Are not all our great rights
now secured? Is not the press; is not religion
free? What more do you want? No discreet
people will rush into change/, until they are driv
en on by some flagrant evils.—What great)
calamity has lately fallen upon us, that wc should j
now be hurried into aConvention? Surely some i
great change must recently have taken place.1
When some few years ago, the western people I
pressed for an alteration in the constitution, the
storm was averted by the passage of the Senato
rial bill. What practical evils havo since been
generated ? Lately indeed we have seen some
essays in the newspapers; but what well-founded
complaints have they produced ? JWr. N. said,
it was enough for him, that he fouud the people j
happy ; that if you once.embark on the tem
pestuous ocean of experiment, you are not a
ware of the rocks and quicksands which you
may have to encounter; that the vessel may
reach the haven, but.in so shattered a condition,
as scarcely to survive the shock.
He then proceeded to examine Jlfr. Mrs ob
jections. And first as to the right of suffrage,
the gentleman does net tell us what lines or li
mits he would lay down fir our guidance. He
speaks of the hardship of denying the r ght of vo
ting to the merchants ; hut when he is thus at
sea, where will he stop ? Why abandon the
freehold ? What belter evidence can we have
of a man’s permanent attachment to the state,
than the possession of the soil? What more
strenuously tics him down to (he interest of the
state ? A merchant’s property is of a fleeting
description. His goods are here to-day and
g >no t >-morro\v. But the land holder cannot
consent to an}’ great measure, whose conse
quences lie does not expect to participate. This
right of freehold too issocasy to be obtained, that
the gentleman himself says it may he purchased
for a mere song !—Jlr. N. said he had seen the
efTec* of di ferent systems in different states—
and he was satisfied with the superior advanta
ges of the freehold vote. V\rhere universal suf
frage prevails, the great manufacturer is apt to
bias the votes <f his dependent workmen. If we
enjoy • re freedom and independence in Vir
ginia, it is because of the diffusive influence of
the freehold principle itself which we have es
tablished.
But . Vr. .V. objects, that tho Legislature is
too numerous, and the counties too unequal.
Vet is it not so in other states, even where uni
versal suffrage prevails ? Does Baltimore, be
cause. she is so populous and so disproportionate
ly represented, attempt to amend the constituti
on of .d/ary land ?—Are not all our citizens taxed
alike? Is not the number of representatives a
privilege whiuli toe people enjoy—of which they
cannot fairly complain ? It is said the sessions
are too long. But have we any security, that a
smaller number of delegates will not equally
procrastinate the public business—and reserve
so many laws till the last of the session ? But is
it not somewhat curious, that. we. who live in the
lower counties of the state, should be first to put
the ball of revolution in motion? Hhall we in
the spirit of chivalry undertake to commence
this scliemc for tho benefit of the larger coun
ties, as Loudoun and Bedford ?
Mr. N. proceeded to answer Mr. M’s objec
tions to the Executive department. Ho con
tended that it was more expedient and more re
publican to distribute the Executive powers
among several hands, than to concentrato them
in one man; that it was perhaps the Ihcory of
the constitution, to select the different council
lors ft »:a dilferont parts of tlie commonwealth.
that they may bo better acquainted with the
characters of the people, and lie better enabled
to assist in the scleclmgof proper persons to fill
the office of slieriffs, magistrates, &c.—Select
the Auditor as the Governor’s adviser; aud what
assistance can he furnish in the appointment ot
officers ?—-But what practical evil; what oppres
sion have we sufibred fi\>in the present system?
Mr. N’. contended that the councillors were al
ready sufficiently responsible in virtue of the
scratch, to which the gentleman had alluded.
Mr. N. proceeded to answer Mr. M’s objec
tions to the organization of the J udiciary.—•! Ie
was happy that the gentleman had not found
fault with the independence of the Judiciary.
(Mr. M. observed that he did not; though as to
superannuated judges, ho might he willing to
remove them.) But the objects to the grades
of courts: Now, Mr. N. had always thought
that the great beauty of the Judiciary system
was to allow the party the right of appeal. If
this produces delay, may not an ordinary legis
lature supply the necessary remedies ? The
gentleman's wish to do away with the chancery
courts is another proof of the danger which we
may risk by rushing into extremes. The jury
trial is uot dispensed with, as the gentleman con
tends, even in the chancery court. It is exer
cised in cases where issues arc joined. Mr. N.
had always thought that the chancery system
was humane in itself; and calculated to soften
the vigors of the common law. Yet it was some
what singular, that alter the gentleman had a
holished the chancery courts, he was willing
to transfer their powers to other hands. But
tvas it not better for one man to revise and cor
rect the decisions of another, than to con
centrate so many and such different powers in the
same hand ?
M». N. wcniu'l up by asking, why it was that
when we were peaceful and happy, wc should
be rushing into an experiment upon our consti
tution, the consequences of which no man can
foresee—As to the maimer of calling a con
vention, is the gentleman seriously prepared to
dispense with the agency of the Legislature ?
Is he prepared to fly in the face of tiie Statute
book, which forbids the erection of another in
dependent government, within the limits of Vir
ginia, unless by act of the Legislature for that
puqiose first obtained ? And is this attempt tube
made too at a time, when the Allies of Europe
are threatening the liberties of the human race ;
and when we aro on the eve of a most impor
tant election, which may l»e carried into the
H. of Representatives, to agitate the whole na
tion ?—But if it be the will of the people, delibe
rately expressed, to change their constitution,
he trusted he for one should not be the last to
bow to their decision.
Mr. Munford explained. lie denied tbat
his resolution went to dispense with the aid of
the legislature—or that it was his wish to pro
ceed without their instrumentality in taking the
sense of the people, and in calling the conven
tion.
Mr. B. Leigh next took the floor in opposi
tion to the resolutions. He hail not gone to the
meeting prepared to discuss the various ques
tions involved in the proposition submitted lor
their adoption. Bu t lie augured ill from the spi
rit of illuminatiou and reform which had gone
forth among the people; and especially from
such a proposition as the present; coming too,
from a man of such mild and amiable disposition,
and whose motives were always so free from ob
jection, as the mover of the resolutions. What,
ho asked, were the meeting called on to do?
They were called on to do, or to recommend nn
act, which amounted to nothing short of hfch
treason. In proof of this Mr. L. read that part
of an act of theGener.il Assembly which pre
scribes, that “every person or persons who shall
erect or establish, any government separate
from, or independent ofj the government of Vir
ginia, within the limits thereof, unless by act of
the legislature of this commonwealth for t^hat
purpose obtained, or who shall, kc. &c. shat be
adjudged guilty of high treason."* The pro
position, Mr. Leigh said, if he understood it cor
rectly, was, to caill a convention l»y the people
without the consent of the legislature; and to es
tablish a government, which shall be above the
legislature and the present government of the
state. Gentlemen, he hoped, could not mean
this—and yet if the first resolution meant any
thing, it proposed togo to this extremity.
Mr. Munford rose to explain. He said if the
great majority of the people, in their sovereign
will, were disposed to call a convention, they
had the power to do so. Such a convention
would be legitimate, and no person would be
guilty of treason for being concerned in it. He
did not say that a convention ought to be called
by tho people in any other than their sovereign
character. He had no doubt hut that, when the
legislature understood the will of the people in
this respect, they would call a convention.
Mr. Leigh resumed his remarks. He admit
ted it was true that the neonle in their sovereign
capacity, had the right, in resistance to griev
ous oppressions, to assemble and redress them
selves. But was it intended, be asked, that the
people of Richmond should recommend an open
act of rebellion, without the existence of any
oppression or tyranny, in relation to our civil,
political or religious rights? Without even the
insinuation of corruption in any of the public
fuuctionarics? llecallcJ on gentlemen to show
that from the very commencement of the go
vernment, a single act of oppression had been
committed either by the Legislature, the Exe
cutive or the Judiciary. And he asked if the
same panegyric could be pronounced on anv
other government which had ever existed oil
earth? He would not say that errors in the se
veral departments of the government had not
been complained of. But they were errors in
policy—partaking in no degree either of oppres
sion orcorruption. And yet, said lie, this is the
government against which we are called on to
enter into absolute rebellion, without even ma
king a respectful application to the legislature
on the subject. Ifno bribery, corruption or op
pression be found in the government, why he
asked, adopt a measure of the violent and ille
gal character of that proposed?
Mr. Leigh said he had not come 1o the meet
ing to enquire into the various questions which
had been brought before it. Such subjects were
not to be discussed in thehecl of a evening. All
tntawere not prepared to act with the spirit of
intuition, like some of the gentlemen who had
so zealously entered into the subject of reform.
Most of these questions, he said, had been grave
ly and deliberately discussed by the wisest and
best patriots the connin' had ever produced;
and perhaps none more so than the right of suf
frage, which experience had proved to have
been fixed upon the safest basis. But new light*,
it would seem, have been obtained. The spi
rit of reform had gone abroad; and the long esta
blished and approved features of our govern
ment were to pass in review, and to be new mo
delled after the fashionable notions of the day.
For bis own part, Mr. I.. said, he was Ratified
with the present state of thing9, and should not
enter into such discussions.
* The third section of the said act prescribes,
that every person who shall attempt to est;*blish
such government, by any other means than with the
assent of the legislature of this commonwealth, and,
in pursuance of sueh attempts, shall join with arty
other personor personsinany overt act for promoting
such attempt; or who shall by writing or advised
speaking, endeavor to instigate the people of this
commonwealth, to erect or establish such govern
ment, without such assent as aforesaid; shall be ad
judged guilty of a high crime and misdemeanor;
and, on conviction shall be subject to such pains
and penalties, not extending to life or member, as
the court before whom the conviction slu^ll be* shall
adjudge. J. V*l. ft. C. p. 591.
But, he remarked, that one great objection
had been urged in tbe papers, which bad had
much iniiueucc iu producing the present dissat
isfaction. It was the long Sessions of the le
gislature, That body, he said, had to superin
tend tbe diversified interests of this great state
and vrai it wc/hderful that their Sessions should
be longer when our population is 1,000,000,
than when it amounted to only 300,000, souls!
T lie expense, though, is complained of—212
ineu engaged for several months in the protec
tion of the public interests, expend, of the pub
lic revenue, say £120,000. Was it to come to
tins, that the citizens of Richmond could not
bear this enormous expenditure among them,
and that the weight of gold was oppressive to
them? //e should he told, probably, that this
was an arguiucut addressed to their interests.
If so, he would reply, let each portion of the
state protect its own interest, and the interest
ot the whole would he sufficiently guarded.—
But ho contended that the expense was not,
by any means, suificicntly great to induce the
call of a Convention ill any form, and, especial
ly, in the maimer proposed. That expense le
vied on the people by a capitation tax wodld on
ly amount to 11 cents and & 2-100 of a cent per
head. I his lie said was the whole cost of civil
government—and were the people prepared to
jeopardize their constitution under which they
enjoyed so much tranquility, liberty and happi
ness, for I he sake of reducing it to 6 dents per
head? He had uo doubt but that the British
Government would ivillingly pay all the expen
ses complained of, and take us back under its
protection, Lc.
Mr. L. said he had heard with surpriseof the
burthen of taxes iu this country. lie asked
what those taxes were, and contrasted them
with the civil, political aud religious rights we
eniov.
Men’s disappointments, he said, seem to vent
themselves in a desire for a convention. If a
man became a bankrupt—ifhe is refused a dis
count at bank—or ifhe loses a cause in the court
ofappeals—he immediately imputes it to defects
in tiie constitution, and becomes the advocate
of a convcnsion. A respectable citizen, he
said, had cotnc to Richmond lately, a violent
enemy ot a convention—a cause of importance
was decided against him in the court of appeal*
—and he instantly exclaimed, *«• by G-il there
must be a convention.^
Nd man, said .Mr. L. had a greater interest
in the prosperity of the country than myself.
He belonged to a profession the chief dependence
of which was on that prosperity. I le expressed
his appreheusiuns as to the effect of the propos
ed changes. The right of suffrage—the courts
—the executive and the legislature are to be
upturned and new moddelled. But no one could
ay what were to be the substitutes in their
place. What evils, ho asked, were suffered
from the folly or tho defects of the executive ?
There was one feature in that department
which he would abolish, and which the gen
tleman (Mr. JlTunford) had called the scratch
—He considered it odious because it unneces
sarily subjected to mortification, the feelings of
honorable men. But to save the personal
feelings of men he was not prepared to upturn
the government; to abandon, for uncertainty
that which we hail tested and found to be good,
and that too, by open rebellion.—Nor was he
disposed to acquiesce in the doertrine of non
resistance and passive obedience. When ty
ranny or oppression existed, no man would be
found more willing than himself to resist it.
But there is at present no grievance to redress,
no oppression to resists.—He had expected the
ohject of the meeting was to digest something
likeabnemorial to the Legislature, expressive of
the evils which exist and calling on them for the
proper relief. Instead of that the proposition
was to give up alt-and take the chances
whether we get a better or a worse constitution.
He referred to the results of the conventions
which had been called in other states, and asked
if the people were any better satisfied since
than before they were held. He said the gen
tleman, (ar. m.) was mistaken in supposing that
the expression in the constitution of a frequent
recurrence to fundamental principles meant,
that there should be frequent revolutions in the
governmcnt/Itonly, meant, a regard should be
had, in the ordinary course of legislation to these
principles; and was rather an injunction on the
departments of Government tn that effect, than
any thing else. Any other interpretation he
thought inconsistent with the peace and good
order of Society. No human production could,
in the nature of things, be perfect. Every
Constitution must, therefore, he imperfect.
And if it followed, as a matter of course, that
every imperfection either real or imaginary
was to be remedied by a Convention, there
would he no end to them. The frequent changes
would disturb the tranquility and harmony of
society (if they did not produce more serious con
sequences) without any corresponding benefit.
Let this principle be but once adopted to the ex
tent to which gentlemen seem disposed to carry
it, and wc shall be subjest to constant changes
and revolutions. .Yeio lights will be perpetual
ly springing upon us. For his own part, Mr. L.
said, he preferred the endurance of some trifling
evils to the hazard of important benefits. If the
length of the sessions of our legislature he an ob
jection, it is one of trifling importance. This
country is, perhaps, more given to discussion
than any other. But debate tends to delibera
tion and to the diffusion of information among
(lie people. The British Parliament consists o
000 men. Yet they dispatch business more ra
pidly than either the Virginia Legislature or
Congress; for no man could be heard there un
less he had matured his ideas so as to be worthy
of being heard.
Mr. Leigh said, that many of the defects com
plained of by the friends of a Convention, coo Id
be remedied by legislative enactments, which
he thought preferable to a total revolution in the
government, the results of which no one could
foresee. They might he cither fortunate or
calamitous, and lie was unwilling to take the
hazard.
Mr. Tlallam, in a few remarks which we did
not distinctly hear, supported the resolutions,
lie was followed by
Mr. John Robertson, (Attv. General,) who
after calling for the reading of the resolutions,
said, that if voting for them, was high tre ism.
he was prepared to march to the scaffold. Thcv
were in his opinion nothing hut (he expression
j of an opinion. And if there was no other argu
mentin favor of aeon velition, hut the mere an
nunciation of an opinion, that the people of this
free country could not peaceably assemble and
j express their opinions, he should consider that
' sufficient.
Mrsssr. Nicholas and 'Leigh both explained.
Mr. Robertson, in continuation, remarked,
that the friends of a Convetnion had been un
justly denounced as the advocates of disunion
and discord. This denunciation was disproved
by the very course of the present debate. Mr.
It. commented on the glorious effects ofonr re
volutionary struggle, and the rights and privi
leges which it had secured to the people. That
Revolution had grown out of the grievances
imposed on the. people. The adherents to anti
quated abuses, now sustained the //oly Alliance,
and were prepared to re-establish the BaSfile—
and it was opposition to a spirit like this which
produced our Revolution. It was opposition to
the same spirit which now srtngbt to Amend the
objectionable features in our constitution. But
a challenge had been given to show anv act of
oppression in the government. Was it, he ask
ed, no oppression to a free man, 0:1 trie day of
election, to he turned from the polls to make
'vsy for t)>e lordly proprietor* t* the -writ? ft
wa» hostility to a principle ?Hie tins, rather than
the coat cinpti bio amount of tax on l*o, which
induced the people to resist by force the oppres
sion of the British Government. 7/e did not
1 consider the possession ax the best evidence ol
& permanent attachment to tlie country. It
might induce a man, if the country were attack
ed by a powerful enemy, to make different
terms of accommodation, kc, But it gave no
addition evidence ol intelligence, of pat/otisin
or ot virtue. The non-landholder was now not
excluded from voting only, but from serving on
a jury in many cases, and especially where the
rights of the landholder were involved. Was
not this, lie asked, actual evidence of a grievous
I oppression in this country wl«ch called for a
remedy?
»Vr. R. said lie would not go into all the sub
jects of discussion. Z/c had not intended to say
one word. lie had never heard until that night
that the oiganixalion of the Executive was not
defective. The court of appeals consisted of
five judges, three ol whom might be supermini*
ted and unfit for their office. *Vany of the
judges of the.circuit eourts and courts of clian
oery might likewise become so. Were we to
wait until this stale oflhings actually occurred,
before the evils were guarded against? The
failure in the set era! departments of the go
vernment to abuse the powers which had
been int rested to them, was the best evidence
that no danger could lie apprehended from a
Convention; and that it would exercise its pow
er? with due regard to the interests aud happi
ness of the country’.
JIv. Leigh remarked that bo had not said that
the resolution itself was ti e won, or that its ad
vocates would be guilty of treason by voting
for it. But he had said, and he still thought, it
recommended to the people to doan act which
would atnouut to treason, //ad not the gentle
man read the preamble to the constitution, and
the declaration of independence? J/ad he fur
g^olten the long list of grievances and oppres
sions there complained of—and the history of
the times? But ho had gotten on the favorite
topic of free suff'rage, and all the advocates of
a Convention, would disturb that uutient and
valuable feature in the constitution; he would
to a boy of 15 years the right of suffrage. A-1
I gainst such changes .Vr. L. most earnestly Dro
lesicu; ana cii<K:Jamieu the support of anyprin
ciple at ail analogous to that on which the Ho
ly Alliance was loundad, ko. kc.
Mv. Jlfunford regretted .that so strange an in
terpretation had Leon given to his resolution.
It only declared an opinion, aud proposed no
illegal measure.
Alter a few further remarks from Mr. Leigh,
Mr. llitchie offered the following by wav of
substitute to Mr. Mutiford’s first resolution;
and it was accepted by that gentleman:
Resolved, As ihe opinion of this meeting, that
the present Constitution of Virginia is defec
tive aud requires amendment.
Mr. Leigh culled for an enumeration of the
defects in the constitution. He said that no
two of the. advocates of convention would he
found to agree in their ideas on the subject.
Every man had a list of defects, and a corres
ponding list of remedies. 11 was from this great
diversity of opinion he anticipated most danger.
It only a few icatures in the instrument were to
be changed, it might be all well. But be was
alarmed tor the safety of its most valuable parts.
Mr. Ritchie observod, that it was not his wish
to make u long speech; but that passing over
the other defects in the constitution, he would
! name oue upon which he thought all the friends
ot a Convention would agree; the unequal re
presentation of the counties. He had no idea
that the small county of Warwick should be en
titled to as large a representation as the popu
lous couuty ot .Bedford. Was it not unjust,
oppressive, contrary to the genius of our insti
tutions, and did it not cry out for amendment!
Mr. Leigh asked when the gentleman would
be satisfied. Could any' system of representa
tion be devised by the wit of man that would be
perfectly equal ? Even make it so, would it not
be eternally wavering ?
Mr. Ritchie replied that it is clear there could
he no perfect system of representation; but was
that a reason why we should not attempt tocor
rect a gross inequality ? Upon the same princi
ple, the English people ought to he content with
Uieir parliamentary system, although they had
Old Sarums among them.
Some conversation ensued between Messrs.
Leigh and Ritchie, as to the expediency of fa
vouring the measure of a convention. The for
mer contended that the citizens of Richmond
ought not to be so very active in the matter;
he denied, as Mr. R. asserted, (hat the people
elsewhere were moving in it; that he had only
seen some votes takeo in Henrico, and Spott
sjlvania, and had heard of some meeting in
Shenandoah; and that live gentleman who spoke
ot the movements going on among the people
i must speak like a prophet.-—To which Mr. R.
I replied, that some few counties had already ta
n»:u vines—uiat meetings had been called in
Eome others ; that others which hail formally
moved in it might he fairly expected to stir in
it again ; for as the lawyer said “ What had been
done once, might be done again.”
Mr. Leigh thought it remarkable that in the
lower country in whose favor the excess of re
presentation existed, there should be any desire
for a Convention on the ground of inequality
in the representation, &c.
idr. II. G. Scott would not have said a word
but for the last remark of Mr. L. lie rose
only to say that the remark did not apply to the
cit_\ of Richmond, for there were 75 counties
withG.ro representatives, and containing a white
population less than Richmond, which had only
one. There were 25 counties with a represen
tation of eight for one, which compared with
! this city—and in which every voter had eight
times the political influence of the voter here.
And there were only four counties represented
on the footing of equality with Richmond. This
he thought was a grievance sufficiently great to
induce the people here to with a Convention. J
i>Ir. Leigh said that the country beyond the
Alleghany mountain and below the head of tide
water, including Richmond, had more repre
sentatives than they w'ero entitled to. It was
the middle country’that was not fully represent
ed, and which bore the chief burden of taxation.
Thcyhad not complained.—They were quiet and
satisfied; and the complaints corne from the skirts
of the state. The whole population of Richmond,
he said was not permanently attached to the
state. Many of our eiliz, ma are individuals who
have located themselves here for the purposes
of commerce, and may he gone to-morrow.
These he thought ought not to he brought into
the count.
Mr. Nicholas suggested that the inequality of
representation as to Richmond could ho cor
rected by latV, and formed, of itself, no ground
for a call a convention, &rc.
The question was then taken and the meeting,
by a large majority, adopted the resolutions.
(See official proceedings.)
After the appointment of the committee tlic
meeting adjourned.
ELECTIONS.
Caro’ine—Stafford If. Parker, Smnl Chiles.*
I/mint—ff. G. Winston, —— Kimbrough.
Buckingham—Reuben H. Pattesan, Charles
1 Yancey.
ft'>ckbriff<'6~—.1 no. Rowyor, Ro. While.
J'm/erick—James Ship,* .(♦«. Scxf ri.
S’ lfFord'—Cu n. M. Cooke,* W. K. Oantcl.
j *«Vcic mmnbei*.
CONVENTION.
j Stafford—Convention 197 No Convention i J.
I Caroline—Ditto 268 Do. 77.
• «t i*v el F t fjflt o Cbifyeo'ir.T),
tfbW DRAWING.
GRAND STATE LOTTERY
OF MARYLAND,
AWD ALL TUB CAPITAL PRIZES tET TO BK
dRawk, viz
100,000 DOLLARS.
w.uw 1AJLLAKS,
10,000 DOLLARS,
10,000 DOLLARS,
! 5,000 DOLLARS.
BKSIDKS
7 of i,ojo DOLLARS.
Cash paid for all pniee as swn at drawn, if os*
dcrsd at CoiiKN'g Orricu.
IT arranted tindmxrru
w noie l iCKct £20
j Halves 10
Quarter *5 00
Elchth u *0
4Muy oe naa oy lean ing orders at
COHEN’S
LOTTERY AND EXCHANGE OFFICE,
OUKOSITK THK KAULIC-Hom.
lV’,0rders fro,n a,,y Pa« uf the United State? by
umil (post paid) or by private conveyance, enciot
mg the cash or prizes in any of the Baltimore Lot*
leries will meet the same prompt and punctual at*
l?"1'0"” pet so uni application, uddressed to
COHENS OHICE, Richmond, Virginia.
April 16.
7 TllL^fsALK. -*
BY virtue of a deed of trust executed to the
subscriber by Thomas II. Clark, to secure a
certain sum of money therein mentioned to
James Lanier which said deed is dated thc 15th
before (be front door of the Union lTotel^ iiTtho
town of Danville, proceed to sell to the highest
bidder for ready money, the whole of the ma
terials comprizing the I'.oanoke Sentinel print
ing establishment, a Library, a Mahogany
Secretary and one Bed & Mahogany Bedste- d_
Also, twenty five feet of Grouud in the town of
Danville fronting on Market street near the
Market House, or so much thereof as will be
sufficient for the purpose : acting- as Trustee I
shall convey such title only as is vested in me
as such.
GEORGE TOWNES, Trustca
April 9
DRAW ING OF~TilE
Q.ufti\t\co Canal Lottery,
SECOND CLASS. *
THE subscribers having been requested to snpc/.
intend the drawing of thc Quantico Canai,
Lotteuv, Second Class, do hereby certify, that th*
following were the numbers, which were this dny
drawn from the thirty placed into thc wheel, viz - ‘
7, 2, 6, 9, 1*.
And that the said numbers were drawn in the order
in which they stand above ; that is to say, No. 7
was the first that was drawn, No. 2, was the sc4
com!: No. G, was the third; No. 9, was the fourth;
ami No, 14, was the fifth.
, Witnc** our hands, at thc city of Richmond, this
fifteenth day of April, one thousand eight hundred
and twenty-four.
John. 11 rockniftrough,
Peter V. Daniel,
Thomas Ritchie,
James Ramling*%
Robert G. Scott,
From the preceding certificate it will be soi'n whai.
numbers were drawn from the wheel for determin
ing the prizes in the Quantico Canai, Lotte ny
Sccond Class, with the order in which they were
drawn ; and the Manager has the honor to annouiic*
tb the public, the following as the result.
The tickets which drew the ten highest prizes are
those having on them the following combination
Nos. viz:
2, 6, 7, being thc 1st, 2d and 3d drawn No?. *2500
2, 6, 9, 4* 2d, 3d and 4th 44 * 1250
6, 9, 14, 44 3d, 4th and 5tn 44 100ft
2, 9, 14, 44 2d, 4th and 5th 44 500
'•> 0, 44 1st, 2d and 4th 44 igc
2, 7, 14, 44 1st,2d and 5th 44 * jgs
b, i. 9, 44 1st, 3d and 4th 44 163
6, », 14, 4* 1st, 3d and 5th 44 165
7, 9, 14, 44 1st,4th ahd 5th 44 igx
2, 0, 14, 44 2d, 3d and 5th 44 166
I lie 250 tickets which drew prizes of $10, are all
such as have on them any two of the d iwu ..uu-.
hers. And the 1500 tickles which drew prizes of
$5, arc all such as have any one of tho drawn Nosl
on thetn.
A. McINTYRE, Manager.
Richmond, April 16
QU2^TiCd~CJ^fA£ir
third (;LASSr
SCHEME.
1 prize of $ 2500 is <2 2500
1 . 1250 . . . . 1250
1 *. 750 ... . 750
1 ; • * • • • 500 .... soo
1 • • • * • • 400 . . . i 400
*.160 ... . 840
. 10 ... . 2500
loOO * . ... 5 ... 7500
1760 Prizes - . -.<2 15240
2300 Planks * 240
4060 Tickets.
The prizes in the preceding Scheme, v ill he de
termined a3 follows : Thirty Nos. from 1 to 30 in
clusive, will severally be placed into a wheel on the
day of drawing, and five of them draw,, cut; and
that ticket having on it the 1st, 2d and 3d Nos,
drawn from the wheel, will be entitled to the highest
prize ; that having on it the 3d, 4th and 5th N<*
drawn as aforesaid, will be entitled to the next
highest prize; that having on it the 2d, 4th and5th,
wd heentitled to the prize of $750; that having or,
'* 2d; dd and 5th, will he entitlrd to the prize of
: $.-,00; that having on it the 2d, 3d and Ith, will b»
entitled to the prize of f400 ; the other five tickets
whw.h shall liavo on them, respectively, tlireo of th«
drawn Nos. shall each be entitled to a prize of $168
the 250 tickets which shall, respectively, ha^r otj
them, any two of the drawn Nos. shall he entitled
to prizes of $10; and the 15,000 tick-ts whirl,
shall have one of the drawn Nok on them, shall
each be entitled to a prize of £5.
No ticket which Shall have drawn a prize of a su.
penor denomination, can be entitled to an inferior
prize.
I lizes payable 30 days after the drawing, land
subject to a deduction of 15 per cent.
drawing will positively take place
FHL RSDAY, the 27th of May next.
rtlESEVT PRICK OF TICKETS.
Ti,ckcls $ 4 no
Half do. 2 00
Qttarlcr do. j pn
Eighth do. ,n
But Will advance, on the 2Jd instant, tc .$ { ,0, »jv.»
TICKETS Sc SIIMiFS FOH SICE n‘V
VIHOIKM iOTT.'.as OT AdV
tiVOER tllE IIA (il.E HOTEl*, K STREff,
Kinnlo\T),
Where the cash will always ha paid at a triffiint
discount, for all prizes in the above lottery as soon
us drawn.
Orders, post paid, thankfully received, and prompt*
ly attended to. r
Clubs dealt wi»h on the most favorable terms,
Richmond, April 16. 24
SOOKS 6t STAXCO^AXIV.
£ '10L1.1NS& Co. (successors of Benjamin War,
Vy ner,) at the old stand, market bridge, Rich
mond, Va. have constantly on han 1 rt general 3s<
sort merit of Theological, Medical, Law, Misceila
emus, Greek, Latin, French and Eng’ivh School
Books—with a good «tn: k of Dry Books. Jooinals,
| Ledgers and o’hcr AcConni Book*:—Foolscap and
i Letter Paper; Den i. Medium, Royal and Super
! Royal Writing ami Drawing Papers: Slates, I* n
i cils, Q lilh. Wale is, Sealing Wax. Pocket Mo
I Ink, Ink Powder Ink Stands, M .Thematkal Li*
| strum*, nfs. Mans, Cubes, fee. fee. fe.—Which they
Will s d who .vt ■*>'/. .'i -cryno./ pitccs.
’■* r.vtM