Captain Blake, bluff anil hearty, and now and
then a generous follow snatched from the frag
ments of »he Da vet no Belle.
DAILY NOltTIIEltN TRIIiLAE.
MONDAY MOKN., JAN 31. 1848,
Citizen scan have tile 1 'a i I y T i ilni lie lei taj their
resiliences or places of business, at SIX t * , ,
PE i WEEK, by leaving their names with the
Carriers, oral (lie office of publication.
{£7- Single ropii s- i T 1 < F* n •'<> ,iari al
lie I'iihiication Office,or of the Carriers.
Teems of AdvurtNing tin* Dally rl «*i
liuiie.
Eiglittlnes nr less on»* or f\vo insertions, 20c. (
Eight lines or less three insertions, 30c*
Eight lines or h*ss six inserli..us, 50c
Sixteen lines, nr more lb on eight, one or two
insertions, 66c.
Sixteen lines,or more ihaiif.ight,t liree inser
tions, 62c.
Sixteen lines, or more than eight, six inser
tions, SI,00
A liberal discount will he made to yearly or quar
terly advertisers.
Eastward “the Star of Empire holds
its way ”
Whatever may he said against Gov. Dannt
he cannot, like Gen. Worth, he charged with
ingratitude. The Eastern folks made him
Governor, and he in return bestows all the of
fices on them. Tlius Bangor has been honored
with the appointment of the new Senator, al
though President Polk requested the Govern
or to appoint Nathan Clifford ; and now the
Attorney Generalship is given to a Bangor
man, although the west and centre presented
many whose*s claims to the office were cer
tainly equal to those of the successful candi
date. Perhaps, however, the Governor con
siders that a certain affair which came off at
Augusta a few years ago, gives Mr. Blake a
claim on Democratic regard, support and sym
pathy, such os none of his competitors can
present, to say nothing of the claims of grati
tude.
_*_.
For Tito Northern Tril nne.
A Cry from Macedonia.
A fow evenings since, ns we were reading
the very interesting Book called tho “Acts ot
the Apostles,” we were rather forcibly struck
with the cry which was made by the man from
Macedonia, saying to the Apostles, “ Come
overinto Macedonia and help us;” and also at
the readiness of the Apostles to go to their
help, for it is said, they immediately left Troas
( where theory was made) and went to Mace
donia, and a blessing attended their labors, for
souls were converted through their preaching.
In reflecting upon the subject we were led
to think that (with some propriety at least)
the same cry might be made to the ministers of
Bath by many in this town and by some with
in the limits of the city. For ire nerd help.—
If in cities, where thev have line upon line,
and precept upon precept, preaching every
.''abbath and religions meetings on every even
ing in the week, there arc those who sleep ns
do others, how can it he expected of us to live
as Christians, to let our light shine and thus
show forth the praises of llim who hath called
us out of darkness into his wondrous light, as
is the duty of every Christian ? There are j
many among us who worship (if at all) at the j
city, and are connected with some one or other
of the churches there, and help sustain the 1
Gospel there. But living as we do from two
to five miles from the sanctuary, it is often
difficult for us to get out to meeting even on I
Sabbath ; then there are those who are very j
aged and feeble and cannot go at all from
home, except at the school-house; and then1
tli >re are our children—if the parents go, they !
must stay at home. IIow much we need j
preaching in our own neighborhood, where all j
can attend. We write this not by way of
finding fault with our ministers, for we know
them to be industrious, faithful men ; hut
wheft we think of the many that are fed to the
full with even more than they can digest with
profit, and we suffer with hunger, wo are jus
t ft-d in saying, come over and help us.
If we could have a lecture at the school
louse once in two or three weeks, we would
try to be concern.
Paul and Silas, it is said, left the city even
on the Sabbath, and went and preached by the
river side, where prayer was wont to bo made,
and they were blessed in so doing. As did
they so may others (if they will come) find
Lydia, who will receive them joyfully, and if
need he, constrain them to tarry for the night
Our Savior, it is said, went about doing good,
snd lie requires his ministers to feed the Jlach,
and to give to each a portion in duo season—
We write this with the hope that it will fall
under the eve of the clergy and that they will
harken to the cry, and come immediately (as
ttid the Apostles J to our help. 1 •
West Hath, Jan. 26, 1848.
Judge Redington has resigned, and it is said
the editor of the Age is nominated to the
jnetmey.
CONGRESSIONAL.
Washington, Jan. 2G.
Senate—Mr. Dickinson presented a pcti
tion from citizens of New York, praying the
erection of a buoy.
Mr. Turney, from the Committee on Patents,
reported a bill to extend the patent of Jethro
Wood, and, having been read twice,
Mr. Allen moved to strike out the enacting
clause. Lost—10 to 2G. The bill was then
passed over informally.
Mr. llenton gave notice that he would to
morrow ask 1 a\e to introduce a bill to amend
the sixty-first and ninety-fifth rules of the
articles of w ar.
The Ten Regiments hill was then taking up.
Mr. Dtx addressed the Senate. [Left in ses
sion.]
House.—Mr. Donnell’s motion to reconsid
er the vote on the resolution closing the de
bate on the President’s annual message being
first in order,
Mr. Cobb moved to lay the motion on the
table.
Mr. Doyd moved a call of the House, upon
which the Yeas and Nays were ordered, and
the motion was lost, 71 to 11S. The question
then recurred upon the motion to lay on the
table, and the Yeas and Nays being ordered,
it was lost, 9G to 100
The Yeas and Nays were then ordered on
the question of reconsidering the resolution,
and resulted: Yeas, 102 ; Nays, 98.
The original resolution being thus recon
sidcred, the question of its passage came up,
closing the debate at 2 o’clock.
Mr. Ashman moved to lay the resolution
on the* table, and on this motion the Y'eas and
Nays were again called. Yeas 105, Nays 98.
It was accordingly laid on the table.
Numerous communications from the Exe
cutive Departments were taken from the
Speaker's table, read, referred, and ordered to
be printed. Several Senate bills were read
twice and referred.
The joint resolution of the Senate, authoriz
ing the erection of a monument to Washing
ton on the public grounds, was passed.
On motion of Mr. Root, the House went
into Committee of th» Whole on the Presi
dents's annual message.
Mr. Palfrey addressed the Committee.—
[Left in session.]
Louisiana
The Louisiana House of Representatives or
ganized on the 13th inst., by the election of
lion. P. AV. Farrar, AA'hig, as Speaker, by the
following vote : Farrar, 48 ; Henry Phillips,
Loco, 40. Mr. F. made a handsome speech in
acknowledgment of the honor done him,
when Mr. Alexander Cuvillier, (politics not
stated) was chosen Clerk, receiving 70 votes
over the opposing Candidate, Mr. llicord,
who received only 10.— Tribune.
General Taylor’s Whigism.
The highly respectable editor of the Pitts
burgh Gazette, writing from Washington city,
says :
“ General,” said one of Taylor’s officers,
now in public life, “ tell me if you are a
Whig or a Democrat. Some say you are the
one, and some the other, which is true ?”
The response was characteristic enough.
“ As an officer of the army in the public ser^
vice, I am neither. But when the question
is plumply put to me, as now, I am a fall
blooded Whig, and one quarter over."—Lou.
dour.
Mr. Polk appears to bo not much more be
loved by the “ Army of Occupation,-’ than
are the “ Mexican Whigs." A correspondent
of the N. O. Delta writes
“Yesterday we received the President's
Message, and as far as my acquaintance ex
tends, it is, generally speaking, considered
rather a lame affair and far inferior to the
former messages emanating from Mr. Polk—
his ideas of occupation withdrawal, etc., have
at least tire credit of being original, and al
though they may show that he is a very good
President, still they prove that he is not as
good a general as he might be ”
The Kennebec Journal says “ we are author
ized to state that citizens of the towns of
Yassalboro’ and Winslow will forthwith em
ploy a competent engineer, to survey and
report a route for a railroad from Augusta
Bridge to the Sehasticook river.
Mr. llornbeck, a Whig member of Con
gress from Pennsylvania, whose unexpected
death is announced in the telegraphic dis
patch, represented the district composed of
Bucks and Lehigh counties. 1 ho district is
almost uniformly democratic in its politics,
and it is probable a politician of that stamp
will be elected to fill the vacancy now made
by death.
Mr Clay in Tennessee.
At a meeting of the citizens of Wilson
county, the \\ big banner county in Tennes
see, a series of resolutions was presented, iul
ly endorsing the principles expounded, and
the policy recommended in Mr. Clay’s Lex
ington speech and resolutions, as sound, wise,
and patriotic. They zealously opposed the
acquisition, by conquest, of Mexican territory,
and ccncludcd ns follows :
••11 Resolved, That while we regard Mr.
Clay as the greatest living statesman—the man
who would “rather be utokt than be 1’jiksi
IIint”—and pre-eminently entitled to the
confidence of the American people for any
trust, we will yet support any good Whig and
true, whom a mujority of our party may select
as the Whig candidate for the Presidency.'
Ex-Governor Jones urged the ado tion of
the resolution, “in his own forcible and inimi
table style.”
“ JIu said he was still a \\ nig, ana renin,
lie always had been, to rally and fight under
the old banner ! Whig principles " ere un
changed—so was he. Although he had not
recently been engaged in politics, but had
been devuting his energies of late to the ac
complishment of a different object, in which
Tennessee, however, was not the less interest
ed—meaning the Nashville and Chattanooga
Railroad—his car had recently caught the
tones of an old and familiar voice, (is they
were wafted in breezes of patriotism from the
plains of Kentucky—he was aroused from his
lethargy ! What Whig ever heard that voice
unmoved? It was the voice of his old Cap
tain, under whom he had served in the \ounff
Hickory Wars—that voice had never yet given
an uncertain sound— never alarmed when
| there was safety, nor peace when danger was
I approaching. He gloried in rallying under
such a veteran commander—where was one of
1 the old Whig Guards who did not ? No where
! is such a one to be found. Let us but hear
the trumpet-tones of that patriotic voice at
the head of the column, and catch but a glance
of the sparkling eye of our Captain, and every
1 bosom swells with ecstatic rapture ; every
heart beats higher with patriotism. Yes, fel
low citizens, he continued, whenever I see
that same Old Whig Banner unfurled by Hen
ry Clay !—displaying the same long cherished
principles—to it I must and will rally ; though
I stood solitary and alone, under that banner
I intend to battle, and if I fall, may its folds
be my winding sheet.”—(Cheers.)
The French.
The French are not the people they havo
been represented. We have been too much
in the habit of looking at them through En
glish distortions. The masses are earnest,
frugal and industrious, and they are a simple
hearted and generous people. Like the Irish,
the}’ may be easily provoked, but they are
never implacable and revengeful like the
Spaniards. On the contrary they are kind
and forgiving in their tempers. And it is
certain that the energy and activity of Ameri
cans would make them a much worse people
than the French, if there was the same desti
tution of religious and moral principle here
that there is in France.—Dr. Baird.
gP*The Boston papers of Saturday morn
ing have a telegraphic despatch from N, York
stating that a committee has been appointed
to make arrangements to receive Gen. Scott.
It is proposed to have an illuminatiou. a dinner
| and a ball.”
I ryi'he New York Express states that the
Money Market there ia favorably effectod by
the abundance of Exchange,and that the banks
are discounting more freely.
JqjPWe are indebtzd to Geo. E. Fatten, Esq.,
for late N. Y*. and Philadelphia papers.
UiPlIenry Ilyde has furnished us with a
| copy of the Whig Almanac. He has a few
more left.
r^pThe Umpire reports that a Print Work
Company at Fall lliver. Mass., has failed for
j about a million and a half of dollars.
COMMERCIAL.
NEW YORK, Jan. 20.
Lime—About 1100 Mils Thnmaston have arrived and
remain unsold ; held at 87J Hi) 90c Lumber—By auc
tion' of Eastern, 39,500 feet of Bog Boards sold at 12 75
Hi) 13 75 Iff M feet; 28,000 do. 3d quality, .*10 Hi! 17 25 ;
03 quo do clear and merchantable, 21 50 ; 5000 Pickets,
lo’°5' 5500 feet Scantling, 875: 6500 do lleck Plank,
*25. and 40,000 Laths, 1 50 M. cash. Freights—To
1 iverpool there appears to be less produce offering, and'
the quotations of a few days ago can now hardly be re
alized The engagemants since our last are about 6000
bbls Flour and Meal nt lsGd ® Is lOd ; 30,000 bushels
Corn, dec. Gd ® 6Jd k> bit; Cotton, 3-lGd ® jd P th for
Bquare and round hales; and Cheese, 25s ton, lo
London, some foreign Measurement Roods were taken
by a British veBsei at 35s ; Bacon, 30s ; Cheese, 35s k*
ton dec. A b'ig tiii load Corn for Cork and a market,
was taken up ad 9d (|> bu.sheU To Havre,, CoBoil lias
been taken by n French vessel at Jc ft>. The pncke 9
are making no enecements, exce pting a few Heavy
Goods at quoted rules.
SAVANNAH, Jan. 21, 1847.
Hny—A sale was made this week of liO bn tidies nt
100 Freights—To Liverpool, dull at jjd for sq
and round hales ; to Philadelphia, \ io § fo- C olton ; to
N York, blink at .* fa) 5 lf> for Cotton, and 75c ty* cask
tor Ric e, and fijjr ^ bn for Corn j to Boston, jj fcC \c for
Cotton, and $l.\ for Rice.
MINI A'l'l It 16 ihihAN \ (’—Jan. 31, 1848*
IIk.m Water I p,’w- I |,AVS
07 59 tnor | Od 97 ev. | r. 7 22 | s..» 06 | length 9 44
7 New Moon, 0th, 7 o’clock 28 minutes Morning.
r-.? N First (inalter 19th, 7 o’clock. 7 min. Morning.
O a \ Full Moon, 20th, 7 o’c'ock, 2!> minutes Morning.
7r.* ( Last (iuarler, 28th, 7Adcdocj<^19jiiiim^^
THE NORTHERN TRIBUNE
MARINE JOURNAL.
MOVEMENTS OF THE STEAMSHIPS
From Liverpool From Boston
Acmlin, Shannon,.Jan 15.••■•''2'
From New York
Cambria, Judkins.
Hibernia, liyrie.Jan 21).l'eli -u_
PORT OF B A T II. .
SATURDAY, JANUARY 23.
ARRIVED
55" No Arrivals.
DISASTERS, &c.
Blit; Eliza, of Warren. .Me. before reported bilged at
Havana, was of about 2U0 tons burthen, and 10 year.
old. Probably insured in this vicinity, il at all.
DOMESTIC PORTS.
NEW ORLEANS— Ar 20th ©21st, barques Attica,
N York ; Louisiana, Pillshury, Baltimore ; brigs Ellis,
and St George. Boston. Cld ship France, Philadelphia;
biig II Kellock, do. Advertised 18tli, ships Monterey,
M’Maims, for Trieste, principal part cargo engaged;
Austria, M’Manus, and Medallion, IlotidleUe, fur Bos
ton, with despatch ; Rochester, Otis, for Baltimore,wtg
500 bids ; Win Gray, Crocker, for Norfolk and City
Point, eve of 18th; barques Sharon, Rohbms tor Ge
noa, pawnee only ; John G Colley, Smith, for Norfolk,
&c. wanting deck ft of molasses; schs Gen Clinch,
llalet, for Charleston, Idg; Geo Lincoln, Talbot, lor
Mutanzas &e. large pait eargo engaged.
MOBILE—Cld 17th, ship Mortimer Livingston, Bar
stow, Havre (has been stated to have cld 10th ) Ar
•MU., brig Hideout, Wells, (or West) Poito ( abello.
KEY WEST—cld 31st, sell Gunnel, Uuiner, (from
Thmnaston) rip tried for Key West.
CHARLESTON—Went to sea 23d, ship Alliance,
Robinson, Havre. _ , „
RICHMOND—Ar 27th, brig Stephen Voting, Moore,
A1 taka pas. ^
PHILADELPHIA—Ar 27th, ship Osceola, Barstow.
N Orleans. Cld ship Cordova, Lowell, do.
NEW YORK—Ar 17th. sell Fortune, Llwell, I horn
astou ; 28th, barque Ilerschell, .Means, Savannah ; 2Dth
(hv Telegraph) ship Richard Alsop, N Orleans ; barque
'I h.iiiies, Trieste, brig Gen Wurth, N Orleans. Cld
2-ih, ships Arthur, 'Talbot, Apalachicola; Hargrave,
Duncan, N Orleans; barque Pedernoiite, Knowles, Ma
tanzas. ,
NEWPORT—Ar2Gth, schs Laron, Hearse, N York
for Boston ; Atalanta, Briggs, Baltimore for Wareham.
BOSTON—Cld28th, ships Wakona. Paine, for Vera
Cruz; California, Montgomery. N Orleans; brig Albert
Perkins, Clarkson, Cliaileston ; sell Gazelle, Pierce,and
Geo Henry, Harriman, Frankfurt. Sid brigs Telos,
Clara Ellen, Egyptian.
PORTLAND—Cld 28th, barque Nautilus, Martin.
Havana. „ _ . c .
CASTINE—Sid 21th, brig Susan Currier, Parker, for
Frankfurt, to load for Havana.
Lyceum.
A LEFT IT RE will lie delivered before Hie Bath Ly
ceum, at the CITY IIA LI., on 'V EON ESI) A \
livening next. Feb. 2d. by liev. \\ . I*- DWIGHT,01
1'orLtand, commencing ai 7 o’clock.
Persons who are not members can be admitted by
Having 12 I 2 cents at the door.
' Jan. 31, IB-itj' Per order of the Curators.
I'aUiopinn Society.
riMIE regular meeting of tbe CALL.IUPIAN SOLI
1 ETY will be lield at tbe Recliublle Hall,Tutsan
Earning, Feb. Ut at 7 o’clock. A punctual uttend
ance of the members's requested. Per Order,
Jail. 31, lB4d. FHEI) I). SEWAI.L, Sec’y.
Flour. Flour.
Ir/i libls or Genesee Flour in |niine order for sale
O" |,v J. (i. DUNN, at the Smith End Miuket.
PloKl.ES.—A new and fresh article of Uucunib r
Pickles in handsome orser may tie found at the
South End Market.___i ft- DUIVN^
,J. <1. DUNN,
Dealer in Groceries, M ast India Goods, Precis
ions and Country Produce.
— iuiH,ilr.
' Particular attention paid to putting'up stoles for ves
sels’ use. ___
Mrs. Miller’s
I TINE CUT CHEWING TOBACCO, the best arti
cle in tile market, foi sale at BOWLES’.
Sweet Grapes,
JN good order, for sale at HOWI E<?>
Wedding Cake
ON hand, or made to order from the lies! receipt, at
’ BOWLES’.
Soda It read .V Itutter Crackers,
FRESH, received at POWLES’.
CiiciiinlM‘r Pickles,
JN jars or by the gallon, at n0WTlM,.
lire and Marine Insurance.
TIME Subscriber having received the Agency nf the
c A M l> E A IN *lT U A NCE COMP A N V,
N. J., (Chartered 1832) for the City of Hath, and vi
cinity, will issue Policies to an amount not exceeding
$5,000on any one ri.*k, on building and merchandize
and on vessels, cargoes ami freights on as favorable
terms as other institutions. lb C. MAGOUN,
Agent.
Hath, Jan. 2G, 1848._d?5wl6
New Crop Cardenas Molasses.
14WI Minis very superior, to arrive iimnediatclv_
For sale*by E. HODGKINS & CO.
tialh, Jan. 29, 1848._d75wlti
Solar Oil.
A Superior article for Soiar and Common Lamps—
for sale cheap at (he City Market by A. G. PAGE.
Sperm Candles and Oil.
OF Superior Quality for sale at the City Market, br
A. G. PAGE.
Sw,cet Potatoes.
A Few Barrels of Good Sweet Potatoes received at
BOWLES.