arc ready l« vote upai. it, ami to dilpefife v»ha
with a revenue of from a lo 400,000 d<iU had
lars a year, it was more than he wished to
do. For the present, he believed, the (lamp Icqi
aft might be dispensed with ; but in the year as t
1801, there would be an additional sum of ry t
1,200,000 dollar* a year wanted, to meet was
the instalments of our foreign debt, which fori
mud be provided for. tion
Mr. S. Smith was glad to find that the the
oertleman from S. Carolina is now convin- blig
eed that the revenue of the United States con
is fully competend to meet all its expences. said
He believed the gentleman was much mi- he
ftaken when he spoke of the (lamp-duties as woi
being likely to produce 400,000 dollars ; of 1
he believed ico.coo was the extent of what row
could be expefted from that source. The din
house had been frequently told that the in- on -
ternal duties on spirits would produce 400, pro
000 dollars, whereas the lad return he b«- pre
lieved, was 178,000. It was wrong thus tha
to deceive try unfounded estimations.— I The | boi
gentleman from S. Carolina, and others who j ry
Toted with him, had heretofore stated the to
impift duties at fire millions, bnt it now ho
appeared that those who had edimated them At
at upwards of fix millions, Were right in del
their calculation?. In 1796, they amounted ou
to nearly eight millions ; so that this differ- wh
cnce betwixt their calculation and the real In
amount wduld be fufficient to meet the de- thi
mauds which government would have to W
provide for in the year 1801. He had al- m<
ways been of opinion that the revenues of da
the United States would not decline, b«it m<
go on increasing ; experience hadjuflified de
this opinion. Since the year 1796 addition- fai
alimpoft duties had been laid, and it was so
not yet known how much these would pro- th
dnce i but fie believed it. would be fufficir so
ent to enable government to meet the in- wi
ftalments of foreign debt as they became ril
due ; and if so, it would certainly be desira
ble to de away a tax which was odious to p<
the people in general, and would be oppref- *1
five to a certain deferiptioa of pet-sons in h;
the United States. When the damp law f> j
was patted, to prevent its being generally ll
offenfive, the- duties had been confined prin- «
cipally to instruments used by merchants. Cl
Upon the single article of a bill of lading h<
50 cents duty was laid, though in England n
it ways only 6 pence.—Believing the pre
sent revenue to be fufficient for every pur- «*"
pose, he hoped the repeal would take place; P
indeed, the gentleman from S. Carolina be- d
licvedj with the stamp-tax, it would be d
efficient for every purpose, and equal to
the building of nayy-j-he moll allow, there- 0
fore, that it would be fufficient, if the navy h
was; left out the question. When the le- M
giflature determined upon building a navy, f<
he woulfl join that gentlemal in providing f
the mpans of effecting it; but, I'until that r
was done, h« saw no necelfity for providing t
for that -objeft. D
Mr. Chamflim said he (liould vote in fa- 0
your of the repeal ; but he should not do it 1
from any popular odium which might be h
attached to the name of Stamp-Tax^—this tax F
certainly bore no affinity to the Stamp, Tax
pfopcifed to be laid upon'tfcis country f
by Great Britain without our consent. It f
was not the Ux itfelf to which the people {
were at that time opposed, but tojtheprinci- )
pie upon which it was founded. In proof 1
of this, it Would be recollefted that a duty <
on tea met with the fame opposition. Mr. '
C. said he had not changed his opinion I
on this fttbjeft ;he voted against the bill '
jmpbfmg this tax in every stage of its '
pallage through that House. He did '
not know that a bill imposing a stamp duty 1
however framed (hould be opposed ; but the
present law would bear very hard upon the
merchants of the United States, who were
the insurers of our revenue. It was for this
reason, and not because it was a Stamp-Tax
that he was opposed to it. He found out
of sixteen or eighteen instruments' proposed
to be damped, thirteen of them particularly
applied to merchants, so that three-fourths
or four fifths of the whole duty to be col
lefted would be received from this source ;
and as he could not conceive that it was
the wilh of that house to oppress any par
ticular class of citizens, he trusted the law
would be repealed.
Mr. Craik did not rife to go into the me
rits of the Stamp aft, nor to charge the
gentleman from Rhode-Island with having
changed his opinion. Thefaft was, that a
a very considerable change had taken place
in the opinions of that house since lad fc(Ti
on ; nor had he heard of any thing which
could have induced the change, He fnppo
fed it arofc from a want of information.
The only good reason which he bad heard
for the repeal was, that our revenues were
fully equal to our expences. If this ground
could be supported, it would go to the re
jection of any tax whatever, and would be
a fufficient reason for repealing the law in
question; but before the house decided this
quediou, they ought to have better inform
ation before them than they had at present.
The committee of Ways and Means had not
yet reported a view of the revenue and the
expences to be met, he therefore, thought j
it would be proper to wait for this ftateraertt
for if it (hould turr. out that additional rev
enue is necessary, and that if the Stamp-A ft
be not carried into effeft, some other tax
mud be levied, it would alter the date of the
cafe. He, therefore, moved to podpone
the decision of this question until this day
three weeks, by which time the house would
have received all necessary information on
the fubjeft.
Mr. Tilunohast hoped the committee
of Ways and Means would be indrufted to
bring in a bill. If gentlemen wanted fur
ther information, they might in the mean
time obtain it, especially, as the bill, when
reported, might be made the order for a
dillant day.
Mr. Gallatin said, if the gentleman
who made the motion for podponement, had
had the information before him which was
before the house when the Stamp-aft pasTed,
he would not have made it; becauft it was
not in the power of the committee of Ways
and Means :o give any information beyond
what was befolre the house. If gentlemen i ®
had attended to the flatefltents' which had 1
been laid before thect. they must be as well *
acquainted with the situation of the revenue j- am
as the committee of way» and means. Eve- mer
ry thing beyond these statements, he said,
was conjefture, and every member might ~
form his own. Being precluded by the mo
tion for podponement, from entering into
the merits of the quedion, he (hould be o
bliged to confine his remarks to a narrow t
compafi. The Stamp-Aft, Mr. Gallatin '1
said, was patted for five years; and for what I
he alked, was its produce appropriated? It j
would be well reeollefted that the President
of the United States was authorized tobor- -
row 800,000 dollars to defray the extraor- ,
dinary expences of the measures agreed up
on during the lummer ftffion. The amount
produced by the Stamp-Aft was solely ap-
propriated to the replacing of this loan; but t£r
that loan had not been nnr could not be
borrowed, so that no provision was neceffa- an(
ry for the refunding of it, —With refpeft
to the current revenue, Mr. G. said, the
house had full information before them—
About 1,100,0*0 dollars of the principal
debt of the United States has been paid '
out of the current revenue, txclufively of
what has been paid but of the bank dock. £ cn
In December, 1797, the balance of cadi in t{j
the Treasury was about 1.900,000 dollars.
When the eommittee of ways and means
make th-ir report, they will make their
statement exaft, but this was as near the a- j
mount as was necessary to be ascertained, to
decide the present question. So that the q £
fame reason which inducedgentlemen to vote
for a damp aft lad year, might now induce
them to vote for its repeal. If the question
for podponement was loft, Mr. G. said, he an
would offer some observations upon the me- j.
rits of the main question. -j-
Mr. J. Williams hoped the motion for
1 podponement would be agreed to. He
thought it desirable that the house (hould j
1 have some information with refpeft to our ca
r situation with the powers of Europe, before
r this question was decided, as till that was
received, no one could edimate what expen-
ces might be necessary to be incurred. He
r hoped no extraordinary expences would be
i necessary; but it might be otherwise. If j.
. the fubjeft was podponed, other sources of
. revenue might come before them-. He ex-
■ pefted a report shortly on the fubjeft of
drawbacks. Last year the amount paid un- P
c der his head was 4,784,050 dollars: from
3 this, a handsome sum might be raised with-
. out having reconrfe to stamp-duties. He
y hoped the committee of ways and means
. would, in the mean time, report on the re
solution referred to them, relative to the
j system of direst taxes, and he trusted the j!
t report would be against it. If at the end of '
j three weeks this stamp-tax should appear un
neceflary, there cauld be no difference of e
opinion as to the propriety of a repeal of it. c
t If, however, more revenue was to be raised
e he would be in favour of a ftanap duty in '
x preference to a land tax.
x Mr. Sitgre aves was against the motion
y for podponement. The houfehadlatelyTjeen
t familiarized to calculations on the saving of
e expence, in order to prevent unnecessary de
bate. He thought the house was now runn- j
,f ing into a debate which could have no good
y snd.- It was well known that a proposition |
r _ originating in the fame quarter with this
(state of Rhode-Island) had been before the j
111 other branch of the Legislature, and had
ts been negatived by so large a majority as to
;<j make it unnecessary to spend much time '
• y in debating [the fubjeft in that house.
[ A coll to order.'] Mr. S. did not wi(h
1£ to fay any thing disorderly ; but there
re could be 110 doubt, from the decision
n', he had noticed, that the business would re
-3X ccive its coup de grace in the Senate.
ut ( Debate to be continued.)
ed
| TU»S»AY, FEBRUARY IJ.
hs Mr. H»rptr, fiom the comm'ttre of ways and j
jj. means, reported a bill to repeal the stamp a<3,
which was committer! for to-m»rr>w.
: ' Mr. Findley preftnted the petition of Alexan
as der Po«er, in behalf of several persons having
"* claims upon the United States. Referred to
iw the committee of cliims.
Mr. S. Smith presented the petition of E.
)e . Williams, p-ayiug a reimburfcment of certain
]. e expence* in urred in the ereftion of buildings
on the Ohio, for the better supplying of the
n S western army, or a grant of the land on which
' 8 thev are erefled. Referred to the committee
ice w ho has the fubjeA of North-weftem Teiritory
(li- lands under consideration.
ch Mr. D.Foster, from the committee of claims
)C . made an nnfivourable report on the petition of
Timothy Winters, an uld soldier, whe prayed
'"j for a penfi»>n—which was concurred in.
' rcl Mr. Gallatin moved that a report made by
:re the committee of claims 011 the petition of Alex
»d jnder Fowler, at a former feffi n, be referred to
re- a committee of the whole.—Agreed,
be Mr. D Foster moved that the report on the
• petition of Alex. Buchanan, and others, which
, • was »f the lame nature, might be referred to the
1S fame committee. —Agreed.
m " Vr. Livingfton moved a podponement »f the
nt - unfinilhed business, in order to go into 1 corn
got mittee of the whole on the bill for ereAing a
the light-house and placing buoys in fcveral places
r ht therein mentioned ; which being agreed to, the
house resolved itfelf into a committee accord
iftgly «n the said bill, and having filled the blank
ev ' intended to contain the sum approp iated with
13,1 {OdolUrs (viz 10,500 for the light-hcufe
tax o* Eaton's Neck, 1,500 for buoy, at New-York
the and "Newport, and 15" for Nantucket) rose,
one and the bill was ordered to be cngrofled foi a
J av third reading.
i'i A meffige was received from the President of
the United States, informing the honl'e that he
on had approved and signed an ait appropriating a
sum of money f"r holding a treaty with the ln
ttee dians and an adt for the relief of William Al
-Ito exasder.
f ur . Mr- LivingP.on again moved to postpone the
»nfinift «d business, for the purpose of complet
" i ing th# hill in addition to the for the relief
hen i of American feainen ; bn: this motion was ne
jr a | gatived 44 to 36'
j The house accordingly resolved itfelf into a
roan committee of the whole 011 the b:!l providing the
had means of foreign intercourfc, Mr. Dent in the
chair ; wheJPMr. Nicholas'.! amendment forcur-
T , tailing that eftablilhment br ing nndt r considers
' tion, Mr Havtns fpoki in favour of the amend
wa* roent. :r.d Mr. J Williams against it. The
r ays cotnmittee then r«fe. an,l had Ua\e to fit again,
ond A fkttch of their fpeechcs will be given.
Mr Livingfinn, from thecnr(i*i''tteeto wbcm "tt
ir*i referred -he amendments of the Senate to 1 <1 w
he bill for the relief ef refugees from Canada ~
iitd reported their rpinin>i on the
ame, which, together with the bill and >inerj>
nents, were committed for to-morrow.
Adjourned. v
'.'ft
dsasette* «I
1 "- ■ ■
PHILADELPHIA,
——— « t
WEDNESDAY EVENING, FEBRUART x 8
''"■ • " r
ExtraS of a letter to a member of
from his friend in Montgomery county, State. n °
of New Turk, dated 15M February 1798- raC
"A few daysago, captain Hudson's com- j re
pany of horse paraded and offeted them- , *' ,e
selves as volunteers to compose part of the
detachment of the 80,000 militia men—As- j h"
ter they were discharged, they ereCted a li- g e3
berty pole, with a red flag fixed on the top, U P (
and swore they would support the flamp far
aft." bo '
fur
ExtraS of a letter from a reputable feu/teman cor
at the city of St. Domingo Jan. 121798. " '
" Although I do not imagine that this
letter will find you at Philadelphia, yet I oa
fend it in order :hat it may fcrve as a guide tue
to you and yoar friends, in adopting the ne- *h«
ceffary precautions, in the difpatcli of your
vessel* for French ports. vt ~'
" A privateer of Guadaloupe has brought
into this port two veffeb belonging to Balti- :
more, loaded with provisions and dry goods ™ el
of which the captain of the privateer has ,n 5
demanded the confifcation, because theyhave
Englijh goods on board, and that their <lef- j
tination was to the French ports, Jacqmel j "
and Aux-Cayes, which by a decree of the I ® u
Executive Direftory, is exprtfsly forbidden. a ''
The commissary of the republic has accord- ou
ingly granted the condemnation, although "
this decree has not yet been carried into ef-
f«£l at any other place or oti any other oc- rlt
cafion. 1 P c
" I therefore take t'»e earliest opportuni
ty of informing you of these particulars, P (
and of poiating out the nectlfiry steps to S 1
be pursued in yeur (hipments.
"You must have a' certificate of the
French consul, by which it must appear that J*
the dry goods (hipped are not Englifti, in
all cases wktre the destination is for French 0
ports—But in cases where the vessels are w
bound to other than French ports, you may w
(Kip what yon please, as ia the instance of 11
the port of Spani(h St. Domingo
" I have seen a certificate of the French
Consul General Letombe, deAringjhat the
decree of the Executive Direoory, as it re!- q
pests the capture of neutral vessels, has re
ference only to such as are bound to ports,
formerly French, but now.occupied by their
enemies, and that those of any other des
cription may proceed where (hey please and {
with anv goods whatsoever. It isprefumed v
thai contraband by the Lav/ »f Nations is here y
ex sept ed."
f
- From an nlshorrence of tile lawless pro. r
• ceedings which have frequently taken place
on fuchoceafions,we were induced'to publjfh r
the information we received refpedling the t
late eleftion —We are happy to learn that
some persons who fuppofedthemfelves impli
cated in thofeaccounts consider such tranfac- -
\tion as derogatory to their chara&ers. Tho- !
I i mas Leiper denies that any of his dependants \
| paraded the ground with French cockades and '
_ | armed with bludgeons.
MR. FENNO,
A mistaken notion thatthelrifliareallan
tifederalifts, has arisen from a report only of
_ j the Right Boys, alias the United Iri/hmen ;
who wi(h to have it believed that they are
ItroHger than they are. This city and liber
ties contain not less than io.OoO Iri(hmen,
thus if all Israel's votfrs [4ooo] were of
that nation, there would be a good majority
remaining. But it is a faft well established
' that many French, and many Americans,
- particularly those of desperate fortuies, are
g also antifederal; this ought to be made
0 known for the honor of the friends to order
among the Irish.
n ' A Federal Republican Irishman.
8 _
e From Porcupine's Gaxette of yrflerday.
Bache's paper of this morning contains
c what he intends as a juftification of Israel's
party. Mr. Fcnno, it seems, took notiee of
IS the raw-head and bloody-bones, that the If
>f raelites sent gallopping about the Northern
d Liberties to scare the people from turning
out for Morgan. It was a fans-culotte 011
V horse-back, with this label on his cap, ' If
rael or Death.' Mr. Fchmo described this
monster as armed with a sword, whereas, it
ic appears (if Bache can be believed) to have
h beea a trumpet, which Surgo calls it an em
ie blem of peace. It is the firft time I ever
heard a trumpet called an emblem of peace ;
" and it is molt motiftroufly ridiculous that
[ such an emblem should, at any time be borne
L . s by a half famifhed Carmagnole, armed cap
ita-pie.
d- But, it was not this filly apology of Young
'k Lightening Rod, that led me to take no-
tice of the paragraph which contains it.
k There is something that follows far more
worthy of attention.
* " The Federalifls pretend to triumph in
f " this vidlory : but their hearts are in
1 e " mourning, while their countenances affedt
a "joy. The strength and energy of the de
a. '< mocratic party is a forrowfi)l memento to
il- '' them of their decaying power ; and I
" have no doubt, they would rather hate
he " permitted Israel to retain his feat, than to
:t *. " have been the means of manifefting to the
|e _ " world tnat there existed in the metropo
lis of the United States and its immedi
a " a'.e neighborhood, between four and five
he " thousand democratic republicans ; and that
he "in th« city and county of Philadelphia,
" r * " they have the preponderance. "Will Mr.
j" " Adams fav hereaftei, and will his crea
" tures echo the weak sentiment, that we
" 2re not a divided people ? The division is
I " fir from confclatory to the Britilh sac
tlon : for tVify weTl Know, tliat thouglt
wealth may be on their fide, nerve and
fortitude those revolutionary virtues, are on
the fide of the friends of liberty. Be of i
good cheer ye democratic republicans the
vi&ory of your opponent! is a virtual de
feat. Tou know yourflrength, and let the
British faction beware how they rouse the
Lion by endeavoring to ensnare him. Pe
There ii an ultimate point, /'/ is the point
of ruin, let them ft«p fliort before it be 1
too late. c v ,
«« CASSTUS." ™
This is speaking pretty plain ! But, it is
> more than an explicit avowal of the cha
fer, and the views, of the hungry fcoun
els, who Ire lying in watch to dart on 0n
icir prey. Bache has let this efcapchim T1
ian unguarded moment, in the fullnefs of '
is hatred,lin his unquenchable thirftforven- J
tance ; and I pray the federalifls not to look
pon it as a vain boast. The wrecch is in
irneft, and he knows what he i» talking a
out. I have not the least doubt but mea- 14.
ires are already planned by him and his
snfederates, for arriving at what he Calls
the point of ruin and, we may depend, f)r
-iat if they should find a favourable occafi
n for a display of their " revolutionary vir- (,le
tei," nothing will save our throats from 1
Sieir bloody coutcaux. A
But, I trust, that this oecafion will n<- 2
er present itfclf. Itruft, the men ofworth, 11
he friends of the government, are, or will
e, so completely roused, as to leave the j
efariousconfpirators, with the guilty-look- j-j
ng CaJJius at their head, not the least hope 45
if success. 1
They talk of thefr " nerve" and their 3
• revolutionary virtue" !—I have no doubt
>ut they would plunder the city and murder
ill the proprietors, if they could; but it is _
>ut of their power. They have not the
' nerve" ; or at least, they Have it only in A
:heir tongues. Their wishes were good for
•ioting at the eledtion ; but they wanted
power, and they wanted courage.—You „
lave seen a cur sally /orth, and pursue the \
peaceable passenger with startled bridles and ""
gnashing teeth 4 but, no sooner has the l»t- j.®
tcr turned and (hook his cudgel, than you g,
have seen the base mongrel tack about, and, bi
with hit tail between his legs, fcnlk to his '
kennel.—Just such is the uniform conduft A
of the fanf-culottes, in every part of the
world. They are cruel and cowardly: bold
when they have no opponent, and baftly ti
mid when the have; %
C 3* " Sic Transit"—To-morrow.
J- a
GAZETTE MARINE LI Si. c
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived, the Revenue Cutter, Captain
Roach, who informs that no inward bound
vessels were at Reedy island, or in the river j f
yrfterday afternoon. 1
The William Pepp, Jofiah, and abo&t 30 i
fail of veffelt, ltfttk* island early yeftrtday i
morning l ' ; .!
The Molly, Hodge, and several others, 1
remained at the island last evening—
to have gone to sea since.
New-Tori, February 26.
■ ARRIV ED; DAYS.
Ship Hope, Edjiupn, Hamburgh 84
Brig Abigail, Chaee, Sivannah. »4
Sclir Concord, Darnel!, do. 16
Fanny, Norton, Lanfeveau, 14
St- Patrick, Curracoa 33
Capt. Byrne arrived here on Saturday
24 days from Curracoa, left there
Brig Ami, Jones of N.Y. to fail in 2 4ays.
Rebeeca,Smith,of do. tofail in iodays.
George, Barclay, of Baltimore, tofail
in 2 days for Hifpauiola, and
A fchr. Bunker, of and for Baltimore,
to fail in 6 days.
Spoke on the 19th Feb. lat. 33, 00, long. :
71, 3D. (loop Good Intent, Badcock, from I
Rhode Island to Havanna.
Feb. 22, lat. 38, 00. long. 74, 20. spoke
brig Columbia, Grolier, from Jamaica to
Boilon.
Arrived at Sandy Hook, on Saturday,
brig Abigail, Ch3ce, 20 days from Charles
ton. Brig Eliza, Almy, 23 days from Pe
tit Guave—fhip Mary, Harding, of Bever
ly, 6 months from Calcutta.
The (hip John, of Boston, from India,
was alf» lying at the Hook on Saturday.
The (hip Love, which failed from Nantz
foi*New-York, on the Bth or 9thofJan.
put into St. Bartholomews indiltrefs, with
17 passengers. This comes in a letter from
the Captain, who mentions the loss of a
mad and her railing.
BOSTON, Feb. 20.
We have received a letter from Salem, ac
: quainting us with the arrival at Marblehead
■ from Bilbao. It seems that the feaft of the
" exclufifs" iu Paris, was on the 26th Dec.
r 7'he Danifli or Swedilh minister was absent,
- as well as the American envoys. The for
. mer however from accident. A vessel from
: ' Marblehead for Bilbao, touched at Ctrunna
! and took in four passengers, after failing, a
-1 ' gain was captured by a French cruizrr be
j cause thele passengers were not included in
t the roll d'equipage.
j JDf the MURDER at CAPE COD.
I We are credibly assured, that the late cu
: : rious story from Cape Cod, is untrne in its
> inolt material parts. A leport reached Pro
e . vincetßwn, of much the fame tenor with the
-j on publilhed here. A very suspicious per
- ! son was lurking about the town—and, (cre
e diting the report) the people thought bed
t to secure him, which was accordingly done.
1, Hi» conduft after being arrested increased
. i the belief of the story and of his guilt; and
1-i lie was kept in duress several days. At
C i length fatisfa6kory intelligence being receiv
s • ed, that no such frightful affair had happen
! Ed, as was told, he was discharged.
tr« s* W-. I •: ,;r -r.. •
NEW-THEATRE. "
On WEDNESDAY; £ vetoing, February
Willh* Vccfcnted the Comedy of
THE JEW.
With the Comic OrciA of
Peeping Tom of Coventry.
Pe \> r,g Tom, (with the foEg of the Little P*f»
ihinjr Rulh Lipht) Mr. Harwoed) (being hit
fitft appearance in that eharafler )
fT The doors will be opened at half pift
five, and the performance begin at half past fix
prccifely.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
At Cbcfnut-flreet Wharf,
On Monddy, the sth March next, at li e'cloelf.
The following Articles, fired frotn the wreck
of the (hip John, znd fold for th» benefit of
the concerned : ' •
II Boltt rf Canvafi I Main Top Sail
I Fore Sail t Main Top Oal. Sail
1 l'ore Top Sail I la pe new Cable
1 Jil» S hbJ». of Pork
144 Sheets of.Coppcr Half a bbl. Beef
i Sliip ticil A few bbls. Flour, Peal
at.d Bread
A quantity of Chain Bolts, Rings, and sun
dry Iron, with a large aflartment of all kiads of
Rigging, Blocks, Hooks and Eyes and Thim«
hies, &c. *
1 fthall Copper Boilers jc Water Cifki
4 Compares 7 Olafs Windows
2 Lam horns I Towlinc
tl Spars I Ha*fcr ' "
i Iron Cambou r e A quantity old Junk
I hbl. Tar 1 large A h el
I hbl Copper Nails 1 small * nchor
31 In xes Window Glafi 3oM Cables
45 -raws o! Tumblers 1 che'l w th Medic.
1 brass Move 1 hh'». Pork
i Tables 3 Cluirs
And sundry oh' 1 artfctei.
William' Shannon £s° Co. Auft.
Feb. «8- dt^m
To be fold at Vendue,
At the Coffee House, at 7 o'clock in the evesing,
on the j.'h ®f. "arch next,
r-ju, Ttc Hull >f the
Ship JOHN,
AS (he lies, and three Anchors
«i3WK» '7 in g under the bow, cut away af
ter flie bilged, .itrartded at he mouth of Cohan*
fee creek. She was built in Newhnryporc about
five years ago, was coppered Ullfummer in Ham
burg, -nd measures about 500 tons.
also at thj same time,
Apart of the Cargo whith unot yet get out her, fay,
»9 tonsof Iroif
4 boxes of Iheot Copper
70 boxes of window and hollow Glass
All for the ben fit of the c nctrned.
William Shannon, Auctioneer.
February at <Jt3M
At a Meeting of the President
and Managers of the Delaware and Scuvylkill
"Canal Company, Febru ry 17th, 1798,
StftlviJ, I'hat ten dollars on each (hare of Stock
be railed for ; and that the Treasures
give psbhc notice thereof agrecabU
to law.
1 \ Skfrafffrom tit Mimmta. •
[ GEORGE WORRALL, Setrttary.
AGREEABLE to a resolution of th» PreGdtnt
and Managers of the Drfnvare and Scbi/yUitl Canal
Cmfany, the Stockholders are hereby required to
> make a payment of ten dollars on each of theif
f refpeiSive (hares on or before the ill of pril'.nett,
\o ' WM.' GOVETT, Trcafurtr.
. j i Februafy it. lawtA
1 The Co'mmiflioners
carrying into nflcA th«*TWEN'I Y FIRST
X Art 'tie of the r'l reaty of Friendship, .Limits,and
Navigation, bitween Hjs Catholic Majesty and the
!. Un t dStatC9of America, hereby give i iiormation
to all Persons therein concern®J—. hat in order
to terminate all differences, on account of tfie loflk
; cs sustained by the c of the United States, in
conlcquence of th ir Veffe $ nd having
been taken by the Su'je<ft«* of HiV-Ca hoiicMajef*
ty, during the lare war between Spain and France,
y that they *r ready to receive (at their Office, be
tween th«-h'ovrs of ten and one o'clock. daily) ali
complains and app ic2tions authorized by the faicf
3 * Article, dur/ng iicht een months, from the day
>. of the date herco!, and that 'hey have*p s ower' to
il eiar ine allfuch person? at c«me before them, on
oath or affirmation, touching the com laints in
question, and also to receive in evidence, all writ
' ten testimony, authenticated in such manner as
they (hall thiiik proper to require or admit,
r. I By Ordtr *f the CommiJff r ert,
n | PETER LOHRA, Secretary,
Comw'.JJioners Office, No. lO9', Mulberry
e Jlrtst, May I Jtb t 1797*
Feb. 18, '98 —'im
>0 • t Y% o fe Printers in the fever nl States 11 io fukiijv
ed the above advertisement laji Spring, are requeued t»
re-pubhjb it ene month t and fend their uccomitt to P. L\
New-Torky February, 1798.
PROPOSALS**GEORGEFORMAN f
e-
FOR PR INTI *0 BY SUBSCRIPTION,
r ' A New and Valuable Work, which has been cx«
tantonly iix months—entitled
a, TJROOFSof aCONSPIRACYagainft
, i all the Religions and Governments of EU«-
tz ROPE, carried on in the fccret meetings of Free
n Mafoot, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. Col*
, leded from authorities
:h By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
Frofejfor us Natural Pbil.fopby, and Secretary t$ tis
Royal Sueiety of bdinbnrgh.
Nam tua res agiturparies cum proximus arid.
THIS work will be put to prefsas soon as
400 fuifcrihers are obtained, and no money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lc (hall be print*
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of su
perior quality, which will cosnprife about 400
. pages neat o£lavo, han ifomely bound and lettered
ae * —the price will be owe dollar and fifty cents,
be Tkofe who procure 12 fubferibers, and become
•C. accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u*
It fual allowance to booksellers.
>r I he above woik comes from the pen of J,
Rohifon, of Kdinhorough, a gentleman in high
,m eft matioii n the literary world —the fads therein
fta recorded are well fui flantiate , an.l tlicreafoning
a- and argiimen s thence deduced, while they disco*
)C . Ver the fcund judgment and ptnerration of the
j n writer, are calculated to an\uie as well a* to in*
ftru&. A fccue of vil'ainy is developed by the
aurhor fr.fficient to appal the ftouteil heart.—l he
dangtr to he appr hended from fccret focietia* if
clearly pointed &ut ; the'degeneracy of human na
ture awfully illuftraffd, and the hazard of every
' u " deviation ram the Araiuht path of religion and
its of virr.ue, inconrefhbly proved both to the politi*
ro- tian and the christian by ilubborn and incontro
vertable f As.
tit Svbfcriptions taken in by G. Formal!, No 46,
Cr tWitlam ftretty oppc/ile the Pofl-Cffice % and by tie refpti
r<"" ive lookfeel'crs in Nen* Yt,rL and r'iiladtlpbia.
•e(i Febiuarr 28.
W A Gardener wanted,
ind TO move to the DiOriA of Columbia, one who
underftands bufineC. well, to v.honi gererout
encouragement will be eifen. a p plication nma
IV " be mide inuneiuattly, at No. ?, South Fourth*
«n- itreet. t« CZOKGS WsiI.KER.
Feb. i?. *3»