1. «• / " « *>•«.•
vr-vr —■ rgW.!»T|?jg3r-aCTr/ti;jt>3a.r-wr*jrmcarww
Gazette of the United States.
' 1
rmLADBz?i:iA,
,vrrnx!•■»!. a-y ir::s:sc. jslv*.
l'llicts OF STACKS.
PuiLMJSLPH lA, JvKE.;7,
8 per C-'fit Stock for call) ioj t» to 4 ' r
»■* pjr Oiot. do. 84 %• J ~
Navy Jo. Jo. 84 S. 3
Three pri-Cent. do. 51 By-"
!>el>rrt:d, - do, 8 j T-*r*
13 •W*K Unite i do. ,y" ), t
rcnnfyluiaii, <|<£H » 7 < L
North An.ccica, I > Wffy V 1 *
cotnp. terrrVVto'ic per c. r.t
W pat.
rtituv.-., a? t-> 50 per cf.i t. ndv
Baft-India Company 0/I*. A. 7 percent adv.tnce
Land W rrant#, 75 doll*. per sco a£r**.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE
BiiUori '*on« ac 30 duy§ for cafli 1711 2 per ct.
Po. do. 60 day# do. 170 a. 171 do
Do. do. 90 days do
Bills 011 Hamburgh at 60 days 33 j.j a 34 c ts.
. per Mark Banco
D®. in Amilerdam, 60 days 39 a 40 cts. per
Florin.
fCT* n'flerday, the Gaz-tte groansd un
der the load of news. To day, studious of
variety, the matter is so changed, that even
the yawning lounger may allow that its
♦' yoke is easy, and its burden lightWe
are trurly lolici'tous to giatif'y all; and
once or twice a week a Literary column flialj
be devoted to the contemplations of the flu.
dious, and to the merriment of the jocund
and gay.
MARRIED] —At Carlisle, P. by the
Rev. Dr. Robert Davidfon, Licu{. Hugh
H. foils, of the late oth United States
regiment, to Miss Bttfy Hughts, daughter
of John Hughes, Elq.of that borough.
' » Saturday evening last by
the Rev.Dr Heimuth, Mr John M'Kni ht,
to Miss Catharine Stall, both of this city.
DlED]—at Civetta Vecchia, in Italy,
in the month of March last, Mrs. Henri,
ettc Tt r-sa M strove. Sar'.ori, daughter
of Mrs. Either Mufjrrave, of this city, and
wife of John Baptifte Sartori, Esq. Consul
of the United States at Rome—in the 27th
year of her age.
THERM©METRICAL
OfcSERT TIO N.
CITY OF PHILADELPHIA,
(In the (hade)
Jv ir 4, 1800.
At noon 79 degrees, Fahr«nheit.
July 5 83 do.
July 6 85 do.
July 7 88 do.
July 8 84 do.
ExtraS of a letter from John Morton, Ffq
American Consul at Huvsnna to the Secre
tary of State, dated Havauna 2 Ift of Mat,
1800.
It is with much concern I announce to
you, fir, that (if.ee my lad, the yellow fe
ver has commenced its rav ge« among our
countrymen at this place. A number of
seamen* and several persons, wh® resided
on store have already fallen vi' Aims to that
dreadful jjifeaf ; and several are now under
the hacds of the physician."
The love of novelty is very finely dif
phyed in the sentiment contained in a toafl
drunken, or a drunken tonfl, at a late meeting
in the Northern Liberties. " May afpeedy
ehange take place in every department of go
vernment." How many changes do the
gentlemen of the Northern Liberties wish
in a day ? Are they not a little afraid that
they would he affe&ed with a vertigo, a fort
of sea sickness, amid this incessant •whirl
of revolution ?
" Be my fhoul," said Pat, after a ramble
throu; h the fubuibs of the city on Friday
evening last, " be my (houl, but militiamen
is dam plenty in this.fountry, for faith the
gu tert is full of them."
The United States (hip Herald, lately
failed from St. Thomas with a fluet. But
ter was felling there at 1 dollar pe« lb.
Colonel Jarres Martin, of Stokes county,
North-Carolina, is a candidate for the dif
trift composed of the counties ot Iredell,
Surry, Stokes and Rockingham, for an
EleAor of President and Vice-Prefidcnt,
Should he be chosen, he will support the
present Chief Magidrate, and some other
Federal charsfter.
To Jo $! tb B. Mc Keam
Some time has elapsed since the following
qocdions were proposed to you ; lead you
mtght not have seen them, they are ag»in
pnblilhed, and full time Hull be gives for a
reply, which, if you think proper, fliall be
publilhfd in this Gazette.—.Remember, Sir,
you are plared iri a high office under the
State Government of Pennsylvania, and the
queries now proposed, if ani'wered in the
affirmative, render you unqualified for your
flation. It' you do not answer, it will be a
fair conclufio.iv that you are guilty, and your
silence wijl in,tlace me to propose a quedion
of a more ft rious nature.
Query I. When a man is appointed
Attorney General of the date of Pennfyl
va&ia, does he on oath declare he will sup.
p.jRT the Laws ?
11. Is it confident with his duty as an
attorney general to advise thg good people
to opppfeany tax legally imposed ?
111. Did you ordid you not aJvife a gen
tleman of this City who is opposed to the'tax
for watering Dhe city, to continue his op
pofiri-en, asd to rcfufe fnbiiiffiion to that
law .'
MAD DOo*
We avt i-<f-r:md that a fay was bhtea ih
g bv ri Mad Dog- at the corner
v-hefnut and SciJßnd Streets-He fazed tfi
.ioy by the wi ill and '-early torehis hand of
-
„TJ'-e tytpifpiL Campo died on ii
< .tat- in .-pain, about the middle of Marc
~AH - '-.ia- ' "*'
A letter D Porter o
the Amphitheatre,tender, now a' the Fort
ftSVes that, a Northern Tc'r.r which arrive*
# fNSPoi's, 11.formed 'hnt tbefeho
! nner Sm ft .'y, raptain Perry, of a fro a
. V.i3|p>rr, and for PhJlad. < V. fror
Caps Francois v.-as
crew f»ved. The fchoorJ was bo MR!
lat. 32 by the French U«| >n
and after tsking some provilTOTß permitted
Uer to proceed.
A late Lond">» paper observes that a let
ter from Lilbon states that the Spaniards
seem more serious in their designs upo . Por
tugal, and they undcrftand two or three
Spanish regiments had a&ually taken pof
session of a post on the frontiers, which they
are to maintain if possible till the fr.ain body,
which report states is 60,000 men, fliall
artive.
The Aurora of July 3d last, has the fol
lowing 01 fervation, " Attfrnics of Diftrids,
such 3s Luther Martin, and Judges, such
as Chafe, art eager, a» blond hounds, after
the scent of a man, who has talents and iy
tegrity to expole public &c.
Jalper moll fnrely tell a lie* for the fake
as lying when he states Mr. Martin to be a
Distriil Attorney, That gentleman has for
more than twenty years, held the office of
/ttarney Genera! of the State of Maryland ; '
the duties of which office he has uniformly
executed with an integrity, which hath set
at defiance even democratic censure. He 1
doth not, nor did he ever hold an appoint- j
ment under tlie government of the United j
State*, nor is there an appointment in its 1
power, which could be for his interest to
accept.
1 .. M '* . ' :' ..
• I A f & &S
pc<H.>rs. A. pjWlmuton*that w :Habntem
ia P !a,td wi:h-dtlight bjr t!u
)f li.llitntioii, as th- unit ( Fan i tuiroved fyf_
ic was coi.HJ ._-d by them,
I', only-as a new argument the jer.nz-
Unality of the f til.
•s 1 f,e lentimcou oMan EsTER, wjyich
h '• ave lot.'ly sjftpear-jd in the True. Ambii.
Gan, seem so hap bc-> lift iifijthe fame
mould asthofe of the French pbiWopbeß,
,f though on a differed fuKjeit. ' fhey refoltc
, a charge „f m raHv.bi'tsiito the mere eff;a !
d°? me.'>n ; .'•* disc ,vers the or '
!. gin of wars civil d-ift.-rd, and peftilenoc in t
■, the conditiiiion of the a'mefphcre.. Botii 1
tend eq-ia'ly to the wild and pctni- i
Prc"»" s <>■ rt»n M ~f lied fats and materia- v
jjhtm.- £»* ] t
•I r . ' ' : ' v °" r "" I '' v anceflor#, be- I v
HP W ~ TC bcwild'-f'd ivith tin's new 1
flight; if famine aid pdli.oce attendfe or e
iucc eded.devaftitijg *v:t^ f it was general- a!
Iy supposed ifiat the labours of the farmer *'
, had been negLdkd, or wafted, in order to
support the belligerent armies; and that
icauty and unwli Itfwme d et, together with F
! quarters, and of the ficlc
and wounded, had produced camp, or other
malignant fevers ; and men comforted them
selves with believing that, on the return of
peace, these evils would cease with their
caiifea. They i cver enquired whether the
atmosphere was impregnated with more or
less of oxygenous gas ; anJ had any person '
told them that war and ptftilence had their
source in a malignant air, they would have
conligned him, very to a dark
chamber,and the care of afurge'on barber.
Not so reason the illumined soW of the
prrtent time. I hey will tt'll you verygrave
| Iy, that war and pestilence are bptb effefts
of one and the fane cause, " air inflamma
tory constitution of :le atmosphere."
From a frequent conconiitaney," to use the
very words of the writer in tlie True Ame
rican, u war has been coufideredby many as
.the cause of pthilencc ; this is, however, a
very loose and iuconclulive liiode of reason
ing. May not the fame condit'on of the
t 0 j air, which preu:fpolt:s the human fyllein to
i inflammatory diseases, punluce an unusual
land morbid irascibility of temper, and thus
t . lay the foundation of discord and war ? In
pestilential periods, the human paflions ap
pear to have been, at all times, pretematu- I
| ie rally .fubjed to become turbulent'and ftor-j
b- '• May not the violence of puny f irk
1 in our own tountry, as well as thecxtermi
fe ' nating war in Europe, proceed ill part, from
e . a kind of delirium, excited in-the human
ir : ty that malignant constitution ofthe
I atmosphere, which contributes to the pro
t ! du£lion of pestilential epidemics,, f
1, i . Stak extnrvaganc rant as this, r.t any
time but the present, would hardly deserve
-g a '-liouß animadversion ; but when such
ir unwearied pains are taken, to subvert the
j_ foundation of all phylleal anj' moral truth,
f and to give the wild eft range to. hypothesis
■ and conjedlure ; when thvic sophiAs viry
their means-os deception, l>y lo many artful
II difp-uifes ; and the people are so eaLrer to
£ embrace e very novelty, thatttndj to remiv?
, ancient landmarks of truth, morality,
j and good order ; itbecon-.es an irkforoe duty
, to take some notice, even of such ridiculous
nonfctife.
If the French revolution,- with all its
horror?, were produced by a morbid (late of
the atmolphere ; if the faflions, seditions,
and infuneaions which have diQrafted the
t United Ststes, were owing to a similar
j caule ; the people of both countries were
! paflive machines, and oFcourle were as in
| nocent, in their various a£ls of rebellion,
f alTiflinatiotis, robberies, and murders, as
s thty were ot the fin of creating a yellow fe
ver: for both were produced by ,l an in
-9 flammatory constitution of the atmosphere
; bot h, according to this hypothesis, were ef
fe&s ot the irresistible laws sf matter and
motion. It inuft therefore be aggravated
tyranny to punilh men for any crimes they
commit, Gnce they can no more aveid it
j than they can prevent the fun from shining
It is fuperfluous to observe that where,
such an opinion is embraced, it inuft tend to
.remove from the mind of man all sense of
refponfibity, as a moral agent, and to fur
nifh him with an easy apology for all the
evil he may perpetrate, however, deftruiStive
ot private and social happiness. if
this doftrine were true, pardon the absurd
supposition, reader, it would be possible " to
excite inthe mind ideas, emotions, and affeft
iens of every kind, by the mere application
of matter ; f.mpl'es may be discovered, or
compounds l»rmed, which will produce the
fame effects, with the-various ohjefts of hope
and fear, of joy and sorrow." A time may
come, when an Apothecary will be ahle to
prepare a potion, to create either love or
hatred, peace or war, honour or disgrace ;
and to manufafture an honed man, or a
scoundrel, a Walhington, or a Buonaparte.
But I will not infi.lt the reader with
tedious remarks on this philosophical gib.
berilh. lam almost ashamed I have writ
ten so much, for I am fully persuaded the
preat bulk of the citizens of the United
States detefl such jargon molt fiticerely
that they (till reverence the religion, and the
plain good sense of old times; that they
are disposed not only to worship like their
grand-fathers, but, like them also, to realon
frpm the evidence of fafts and experience. !
1 o convince tliefe antiquated gentry that
the phenomena in queflion were produced by
a malignant constitution of the atmosphere, '
when they njay be fA easily traced to a very !
different source, will require more skill than
the Illuminati of France, and their Ameri
-0 rte n L How ir w r i ump to ? eth vi Thi *
wiflied to difrard corporal puuithments altogether . fhor ll'l-hT f !? ?'*• the cu
from the difcip u ict schools. But take notice read ! tk' ki V '■ ory of the M eflern Infurreamn
»r, th. fame man, who felt so P h,l r ° fo P^ a! fpeakin? of the caule
the poft«riors of a truar.t fchool-bcy conH with r u ,nrurr f. a,on ' f->y» " was a great mistake to |
the utmoll fang(roid, pursue a p-or Pdntir and "i f lC"^tart<u!mt,fedit.oitsf?intoftteFeo
hi- family to the verge of ruin, for on'y lagoon ft ' V ° Win? t0 ,
hi» profeffional errors. » n 7l»®7<x>n- the extreme heat,of the dog-dap m the summer of
and For ,ht G * z * rr * of 'he Ut/irtD Surer
-"h illuminatism.
If there is any thing that surpasses the
r<onfenfe and impiety of the new Philofo
t P h 7. •' 16 'he impudence am) the daring of
its proud disciples. It is fufficient for these
conceited fophills, that opinion ha< re
ceived the fanflion cf agts, to excite in their
irreverent minds doubts of its credibility.
For as truth is not the object of their re
searches, but something new and wonderful,
fonu' hing that will gratify a third for fame,
virum uotitare pgr ora, they seldom give
themselves much corcevn about evidence or
argument ; or when they do, they are al
r way? more ready to reject than adopt th«
re . 'ruth, because, (he wears the matron like,
■ fuber gnrb of antiquiiy.
' So strong is the rage for novelty with all
these philoiophical gentry, that one of the
to mod cautious of them, in a treatifc he pub
lifted some time ago on education, exprefled
' U ' a w '<h that it were poflible to etlablifli
°, schools in the United States, 14 to teach the
Art of Forgetting."* I suppose he meant,
lat only to reach others this Angular art, while
£r himfelf was foffercd to remember all that he
had evei learned ; that he might appear the
greater prodigy of wisdom to his ignorant
neighbours.
It is a little lingular, and deserves re- j
marking, that whenever a spirit of anarchy
' y and rebellion (hakes the government of dates
empires, something of this antipathy
J® to the theorems of ancient wisdom prevails
with equal fury in the literary world. O
at mar, the Arab an revolutiotiift, burnt the
n Alexandrian Library as ufclefs lumber
We know what a'tempts the French Van
dals havt made, since the beginning of their
mad revolution, to destroy every vestige of
science as well as of government :—And
l > when the Fanatics of last century had over
n turned both Church and State in Great-
K Britain; had murdered their king, and '
defpoilfd the hierarchy ; they changed
ery thing they could, and at length propo
y fed to burn all the records in the Tower, in
order, as they modestly alledged, that the
nation might begin the world anew. The
motion we are tcld was lojl on'y by a few ,
'' votes.
j Tais pestilent Se£t, though on the whole 1
' it is a modern and original charafter, par- (
" takes iu no (mall degree of the ferptie and I
the matcriclijl of the ancient heathen fcho. Is. s
c Some of the cleared axioms of human fci- (
r ence they spurn from tham with contempt ; \
and, in order to fubilitate something that j
has the appearance of novelty, in the place s
of what they denounce as ancient errors, (
they are not afhan ed to borrow, even from
u the absurd and impious whims of Epicurus; t
1 and to as ribe to inert matter some of the t
a nobled offices of delign and contrivance. t
" When Volnty and Talleyrand, two apof- f
, ties of the new philosophy, visited the Phi- J
~ ladflphia Prison, and were informed that t
■ hard labour, scanty diet, and solitary champ
" hers had effefted a reformation in some of a
r the convi&s; one of these missionaries turn- g
1 ed to the otfeer with an air of triumph, and si
r declated that he had never seen a clearer de
-1 monftration of the truth of materialism tl
A common observer would have supposed a
I that the reformation, where it reallyjfxifted, «
■ was operated by a sense of fuffering, by fe- d
. rious refleftion, a' dby theabfence of temp- tl
tation. Not so thought these metaphysical j f
* n<• art 17 fTIII nn f U >_../! . , . ■ . i
•V<&> u.iqucfttonah'e proofs of the ford-;, m»ic tl ll„«„ n r
'iJWtypa of th: yellow fever • and wliiief Vincent'■ si!'! f' V y br « J uno »
_ v, 'iy man who has relj !trd m the LTuicd nlrii i ' i J. 0 '" J ama,ca 10 Philadel-
States for the last 20 or *0 years is fn G r I ****/*? a P ' oC P fron ' Jamaica to N.
I*hat the Sir, infhad S?t St Jr Ju "r 21 ° ff ** Ant a nio, *
really become more temp, rate "aS 7 f'f' ftT'" " *** «"««» ou * A
ftlohriom; it'will not be in ,|" Z r 1 aj J l4 l¥ «»3^
rophi:}, y> >. 0 ' ?■ :i e I l rre';'; e ';'
V '"C* him tint the*
Irs o Europe,or thi •faflions of this coun- by a New ft£J££ »r£fT !) "5
1 r ;W 1 ?»?< f ° fapcifnl and extraordinary , afßortL, 7 P * U * ,mvctt
' v '"' "I" Jlt,,,n i turbulence, and a.rage tor Scl.oonei"Switt Penv ,f ,r
tss s&Tte. Mun Wtn —*<*" ' 1
, baltimoke; July J.
-optipn . of. manners and princ.pbs, which ! c, ' 'ARRIVED,'. - Days
conflitutes the morbid chirafter of the age • ™ %? Foi '' ca P ta ' n "t 6 days from
andijot fny physical revolution, or peftilen- e „ w " Pr °^nce.
tul qualities in the air of Fifr ip or America. ! r : Nar <7- «pt. Obear, 6f Norfolk,
NO INNOVATOR. company with us. A number of
J American vessels were carried in there, but
[ remember none except the brig Calliope
4nd Volunteer, of Ncw,York.
Spoke a schooner belonging to N. Pro
iad the crew of the brig Guardian, captain
steve nfon of Baltimore on board, that had
>een cast away on Elbow Key.
Arrived, (hip Rein Deer, capt. Froll,
lays from Bremen ; Left in Bremen the
hip Traveller, captain Billups, to fail in
one day after the Rein beer, for this port.
JP General Greene, captain Weft, failed
8 days before the Rein D.cr, for Baltimore
—spoke the brig Mary, captain Alfxander
Brannan, from Norfolk, bound to Liverpool
all well. r - .
the
fjrf
cm,
For tie Gazstte of the Unites States
Letter I.
TO THOMAS JEFFERSON,
Vict frrfidtnt of the Unite J Slltci.
Philad : July 5, 1800.
Sir,
r „ AS >-° U are a candidate for the Supreme
e Magiftraey of the United States, a know.
Is of y°« r charafter and qualifications
becomes a fubjea of great importance to
e every lover of his country—Had you been
- c ° ntl i nt have moved in the humble walks
s of private life and never interfered in politi
; cal concerns, I would not have troubled you
. cr the public with these fetters, since your
. vices or your virtues could have had but
- Li elation to our national happiness;
j You might then, Sir, have Aided down the
i f u "" re "t of life in obscurity, and at lead have
nad the consolation to know that your de
, tommies were hidden from the world. But,
' a \, , J°? have a PP earc d °n the flage of
I public life in a variety offituations, and now
. otter yourfvlf as a candidate for the Prefi
deiicy, you will please excuse the liberty I
take to investigate a character, which, from
a falie opinion of, your country may perhaps
confide her dearelt interefl to.
Ic is my duty, as it is my with, to give
■ >' ou cre^ lt . for ev <TV great or good quality
t you polieis, and to speak with gratitude of
i a , n y f " v 'ces you have rendered America in
. t.ie course of a long life busied with public
Car *'»~^ llt ' Sir, it is aifo my duty to speak
ot those other qualities of your heart and
, mind which have been also employed in the
national *fT«irs of our country.
ISature, Sir, in proftifion, g'.fted you with
talents, a brilliant fancy, penetrating genius
and a native elegance of diftien, combined
with a third lor knowledge, formed yqjj a
man of learn ng and tade, well acqiiwntrd
with the cl .flics, deeply resd in the philoso
phy of natural hidory, observant of men and
things, and attentive in theory to political
concerns. But, to balance th<fe lingular
uvors, die denied you others, which, to
" move in the tempeduous sea of liberty,"
or guide the helm of a great nation, are of
more utility and absolutely indispensable
Your fortitude has been often tried and found
unequ ,1 to the tafk—truch less arduous than
the one you are la indefatigably striving to
impofc on yourfelfyour mind is fitted for
a sedentary life, and in your closet you may
lludy, with honor to yourfelf, the works of
Naturr ; but the fatigues, perseverance and
firm temper, necefTtry in a ,i Executive fia
fon, would wear out the remains of those
delicate nerves which have oil former occa
sions so often shrunk from the approach of.
danger, and rendered an enlightened under-
Handing useless to its poflefTor and injurious
to his country. Let me conjure you, Sir,
to call to your remembrance the hiflory of
your political life, and from a regard to your
peace and reputation, not involve yourfelf
in that difgrate which mud inevitably attend
your acceptance of the Presidency. You
have been, Sir, a Governor, an Ainbaflador,
and a Secretary of State, and had to desert
each of these pofls, from that weakness of
nerves, want of fortitude and total imbecility
of charader, which have marked your whole
political carier, and moll probably will at
tend you to your grave. Remember, Si«v
all the fcrvices youcvei rendered your coun
try were of the literary kind—The Declara
tion ot Independence was penned in your
tloi'etj where you were perff&ly secure ;
but I do not recolledt that you supported
that Declaration by any extraordinary exer
tion, or by ejepofing yourfelf to any immi
nent danger. When Governor/of Virginia,
you fled from your slate because a Uorm
was gathering,and declined a foreign appoint
ment by Congress. As the danger was vifi.
b!e, you adled contiftently with your clu
rafter, but surely did liot display either much
firnmefs or patriotifrn.
But, Sir, weakness of nerves and want of
fortitude are nayiral defefls—they are not
faults of your own—tho' were you, con
scious of your defects, to accept the impor
tant office of President, when the liberty and
rights of millions and the happiness of your
country are depending, it would in my
opinion, amount to a crime. But I will 110
longer dwell on these topics—ln my next
letter I will csnfider you as the head of a
party devoted to the enemies of America,
and a party created for her ruin.
Gazette Marine Lift,
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived at tie Fort,
United States fcliooner Experiment,'Ma
ley, from a cruize.
Capt. Maley spoke the following vefiVls
on his pafTage home, viz.—June 2oth brig
Charletlon Packet, Prise, 6 days from Ja-
:.e
A German brig, the jfcjltfs, capt. Hen
ickfon, failed 2 days htf< re the Rein Deir,
md a ILip, the lia tax ia, captain Hanfmen,
vas ready to fail, both for this poit.
July 6.
Ship Randolph, R. Oran-, Jsjverpool, be
onjinq- to Portfirxuth. ihe fhiji S"'j:
Sifters, enptain Mathews, failed from Li
'erl'o '' i"r Baltimore, one day b-fore the
31), captain Porter, belonging to Baltimore,
■ime ot (ailing not knowr.—(poke one fchr."
>ound for the Weft-Indies, from New- N
London ; blowing hard at the time, could
rot get her name. In the Randolph a few
jaflbigers came over, one a Mr. of
Schr. Chailotte, Stanly, io days!
Left there the fchrs. Monchief, Pierce,
'"> ad juO arrived after forty c! vs pirfTrttje*
. The United States frigate GeijWal Greene-
Tom New-O. leans, with r,ei eral Wilkin
.on on board. Hd put in tbere-tfof water.
Ericr H pe captain H Vncs?l2 days from
' 'avaitna Sailed with the Charlotte.
Was hoard, d by the brig *«p
tain Hillier, inl.it. 33 *O, '
ft
river.
33 days from the Isle of May. Left there M
the ship William, captain Towtie, belong- jag
ing to William Gray, Esq. of Salem, to
bound on a whaling voyage. On the 6th
to Barbadoes, under convoy of 6 Engliflt
frigates. Was boarded hv one of the fri
trates, and treated politely. Or> the 26th of
June, in fight of Bermuda, spoke the fchr.
CHARLESTON, Jure 27, ißoo>
FRENCH PIRATES.
, Captain Mirier, of the (loop Sally, from
last, in lat. 32, 28, on the esftern edge.of
two armed briqs, one of the other
of 12. Captain Miner went on board the
were. Spaniards, but he believes
French privateers from Gaudaloupp..; h<
Miner aR his liquors and ftnres, and a boat
load of pine apnl s. O; eof the hands of
the privateer mentioned, that they had ta
ken an American vessel. Tl« lar£;eft brig
The fliip Sympathy, Hancock, of Nor
captured off the Cape by the Alarm Britifil
frigate ; f"iir French pafieng'ers wbo wfre in-
The Captain, Mate, and crew of the Sym
.. health^office,
July 9'i, 1800.
Board of Health a superior accommodation
the public are informed that after the 10th
any thing to fend their connexion's perform
ing quarantine, will please to forward be
week to the veflrls detained by law.
By order of the Board,
Wm. ALLEN, HeaJth-Officer.
d6>.
Clerk wanted for Saint Peters Church
Apply to Thomas Ctmpftoru
No, 24 South Third-Street,
May 19.
COLUMBUS.
t "*
9
' ; *
■i'p'