*"- Nt \ '
sue, is tfagcd by iiif.'tfnty. truth, >nd
country, a:v.tiri(i ialolent talfchood,
and vice:—Bvtiie friends of libertv.< . ,
- ' , | ,/t us inde
of their ttmntry, the workmepf
pendente, torei S n ban "
d " Amongfl. the RojX the general term
was
tempr '-<> all ot eve, y nat ' o,r >. n ®'
comprdK-nd- within the original Empire Of
Rome. Pfom the days of the Romans to
the prrfwU every nation that has confpicn
oiitly figured iijjon the theatre of time, has
thought it a matter of Come latere ft to pre
tferve the habits, customs, manner? and ge
nius of tils people, from being blended in
indiftinguilhable confufiony an 1 loft, by
the unlicenfcd inroads of the rabble of other
countries.
The simplest of mftincls (felf-love) seems
to have dilated this policy. Who that had
been accuflomed to the pure morals, the Am
ple manner*, the downright openness of an
American fociejy, wifti to fee it inva
ded by the grimace and fiipontierie of a
Frenchman, or the outlaiidifh gabble and ruf
fian-like inM"'!; I *' of a revolutionarylrifliinan?
Yet. ftrattge to tell, a;:d melancholy to
behold. every barrier has been here broken
down, and under the ftlfe idea of thereby
increaling the st> cr.gtb of thy nation, not
only emigrants of character, but the crimi
nals and outlaws of all nation's have met an
tnireftrained adraiffion and a cordial welcome
to oiir flrores, in such numbers as to £orm a
powerful and clsfely ur.ited covps in thebo
fom of the country.
It is this powerful and defperste corps,
which, animated bv the stimuli, lb abundant
in the principles of the modern. Illuminati,
has twice reared the blooey revolutionary
lUndard in Pennfyivania, placed the li>-
ftirgents and Revolution ills, M-Qcnachan,
Findley, Smiley, and Gallatin, in the Na
tional Councils, and which now threatens
completely to I'eize upon the dejected coin
monwealtfi, under the auspices of one of
their own members.
Although it be enough, that our experience
ef this man has fliewn him to be an odious
compound of every evil that ever found har
bour in the fonibrous foul of a Jacobin, and
although it be therefore of little mor.ient so
far as the question is personal to him, to er*.
quire whether lie sprang f olri the Bogs of
Ireland, or the fens of Lerna, yet, in con
nexion, the eftafblifliment of his country,
and of course of his prejudices and attach
ments, will point out to us a cause power
fully operative in his behalf.
That he firft drew breath in Ireland, is
generally believed, and is probably the fa ft,
as the contrary has not been proved ; he cer
tainly is of Irish descent, and prides himicH
upon it, we find him President of the
Hibcrnean Society. It is in evidence, and
before the public, that he has looked with a
favorable eye on the United I>-i(hwn, and
he is fufpefted to have been not merely a
passive well-wifh'r to their designs. Theft
suspicions are Corroborated by his intimacy
with Reynolds, and other Irish rebels in
this country—to a large company of whom
(and the number JDuanc and the
aforefaid Reynolds, two infamous traitors,
convifls and outlaws) he lately gave a grand
entertainment at his own houfr j and yet'
more powerfully by his openly wifiiing
29,0c0 of those banditti to land in this
tountry.
Added to these, there will be found a nu
merousbody ol coadjutors in.the sanguinary
revolutionilfs of France, who have found re
fuge in this devoted country—A class of
men distinguished by their unanimous devo
tion to Mr. M'Kean, and powerful by tbe
( ing long trained and hacktrned in all those
arts of intrigue and deception, so uleful to
vicious men, and so hrcrfTary to the cause of
the Democratic candidate.
Owing his fuccels chiefly to men of this
charaft-r, they will have claims upon him,
of a nature imperious, and not to be re
filled.
To afift these claims, upon him, there is
little probability thai he pafTciTes either fuf
jtticnt tirninefs or inclination : indeed, already
his partilans flimulants he,ld out to theni
o powerful and binding nature.
hither tlfe in iaft fliall.we look for an ade
quate cause to those laborious and untiring
exertions in his behalf, that alacrity with
w iich truth and decency are facrificed to
"vc hini, hy men who staid in the eye of
• .*? > bankrupted in I >rtuue .and funk
infamy—Dead to any honest state of
™gs, and seeking a refuneftion on the
Departed virtue and honesty of the common.
* e, ;th; ascertain unfortunates, cut off by
t eir own follies, vices or crinus fi'dm the
comfort* and joys of life, turn out of ordi
nary paths, and extort by depredations on
otiety, the wages of infamy and everlaftino
execration. '
That law of nature by which bodies subsist
5 not more powerful nor more invariable,
or more indeflruftible, than the ties which
"i each of the revolutiouifls »>f America
o every ether. Conscious that they have
ln ood and guilt ftept in so far, that to
fnrl rn J Wre t£dio,,s as g 0 'ng o'er," theybend
nitlf " '"i j", 6 9b j animated by one im
fri bl" / °" e intcreft ' Ti ' e ties of
hip, and the incitements to virtuous
thofr!' r* n °) 0f half the °l« ratlve force of
Men J! "k n ° m a connnun ity of guilt.
t Uro , becn alwa y s found more adven-
u ng ' m ° re Ca, ' cld ' s 01 when
ployedin the deftruftion than when it
and governments —Conspirators
Sute m ins r alwa y s -ore re
th.- v l2r* ' morc united > tha " th °fe
thus an'''' ' i us conflituted,
« animated, thus disposed, are the band
WS™*' 10 their fellow-bar
tually com I l W ' le . re he raa y more effcc
ftatei.„h P ? 6 dl ' Brace and ruin of the
»mbition !?j , C . satiate his ''oundlefs
viay tyrann" P ° WC '"' and where hc
of virtue w " ' unawed b y the frowns i
.olio wing eosctfe ami perfpicucuslilf- , While this was paftngl the three Direc
ory of the origin and pr.gre/s of the j tor. personally deuounced ; e,.devoured to
-ent R'vo uc.on in the Government of ; divert the ft,urn by fend fig in their rcfina
ranee. taken from a 1 tc London paper, Uoa. Trcirll.ard, as having been elev.uec'
e »j a t Wt l *&%• , a ' 11 WIW clear " :t0 the di S nit y btfore the expiration of th.
anWd fthe Agenu, and year, which he Constitution requires t<
"CJp' r 't of this inter (ling change ill the elapse betwee-i quitting ihj Legiflativ,
overnment of that volcanic and unhappy Body, tnd becoming a Member of th
' Dsr.dary. Merlin, as a rnif'-,ible J
or-a long time there were only two fatic
on< exiftit>g in France—that of the Direfto
ry, and ihat of trie Jacobins, for a 9 to the
Koyalift* of all fefts they form bo mor«
than an opinion.
After the Direftory had made-its own use
of the Jacobins, to produce the revolution
of FrUwlidur {4th it quickly
employed the immense power which its tri
umph f',aveto it, ti> restrain and even to en
slave the Jacobin Fadtion, by which means
it obtained it. Alter that came the Duck
ies imposed on the libertv of the press, the
military regime introduced nearly through
out in the room of the conflitutional, the
difplacir.gr, in upwards of 4.0 department*,
of the Conllituted authorities, formed in
the year before by the primary afferoblies ;
the exciufion from the legifhtive body of
more than fifty deputies, nominated by the
the : le<Sorial afiemblies ; and finally, after
wards, so many adts of arbitrary power, luch
as tranfportatinns, imprifonmeuts, remov
als, &c. without any formal trial, or by
vexatious proceedings.
The opprefled taction bore with t!.e ut
mod impatience, forthiee years the yoke
of the Directory, the caprices of its jealous
polio : but the reverses which rapidly suc
ceeded within these three months pall, have
weakened in the public opinion, the ter
r< r inspired by the power of the Di r eftory.
The Jacobins never failed to cbarg - on the
Dircftory, the disasters, combined witli the
late elections, in which they had the majo
rity, have added to their importance and
made their enterprises more daring. Hav
ing by these means acquired a great prepoa
derance in the councils, they dexterously
availed themfelvesof the dangers, both exter
nal, and internal to refurac their ascendency
over the Directory, the latter became less
thelegiflature moreindependent.
The Directorial Orators f<?:k into silence,
and yield the tribunal to :h» anti-direfto
rial speakers. The galleries, reftraired for
the last two years, resumed their former
pra&ice only to applaud the latter and to
insult the Direftory. It was observed, that
there were numerous and frequent convea.
tides of deputies in oppbfition, in which
were prepared and concerted the motions
arid operations which were co take place in
the councils. The refujTeftion of the p .pil
lar focietics set afloat ; petitions and ad
drefle-in the na.neoosf s eolle&ive bodies, so
long suppressed, were renewed and received.
Twe fucceflive and very energetic addresses
may deserve remark, coming from Greno-
Be, and containing a melane'oly pifture
of the dangers of the State, a severe censure
on the admiuillration, and inv tirg some
great meafiire to be taken for the salvation of I
the country. All this was evidently con
certed with the party which triumphed.
From that time every fitting of the coua
cil of Five Hundred has bre-.i marked by
some attempt of the Jacobin party, towards
such independence as would reliore the su
preme exercise ©f power to the Ugifbtive
body, and reduce the Direftory to the
fun&ions of Executive Commissioners
Thiscaaftd the meflaKe of the sth of June,
to the Diredlory, complaining 9f its lilence
on the dangers from without and within ;
and tiiat Proclamation to the French peo
ple, containing au energe .xcenfure of that
deprefiion under which the government has
held tht pure patriots, at the fame time that
it proscribed the rral friends ofliberty. Af
terwards in the fitting of the 7th, a com
raifGon was instituted to prepare fit laws to
secure the free exercise of the rights of the
peopU, individual liberty, and to vfcertain
the responsibility of minilters ; Thence,
in fine, proceeding the restoration of the
freedom of the Press, placed on the order
of the day with vf hemence, and supported
by such superiority of numbers to make the
result such as never could be doubtful.
The storm finally burst on the 16th. The
Direftory not having answered the demand
sent them ten days before, for making a'
repart on the republic, the two councils
voted their fittings permanent until they
fliould receive a fatisfaetory answer. The
Bire&ory, adopting the fame measure of
permanence, was desirous of deferring it
This delay was confidtred by the council as
the means of preparing to put in execution a
conspiracy aoainfl the legislative dodo, an<J
talke; of defensive and armed measures, in
fifjing on the oieafurei. At leugth earne
the melfape from the Direftory. In this
the'egiflati.-e body saw nothing else but a
denunciation of the two councils, for not
having f ■ J the Diredtory with precu
niaoy ir.wUij to mfure the triumph of the
armies ab.outi, and from rts disunion with
the Executive Power, fomenting the trou
bles and ag.'tations in the interior.
War wa» then immediately declared bet
ween the two. The crimes of the Direc
tory, in the eyes of the cotncils, are for
having formed against the national represen
tation a cenfpiracy, all traces of which it
ment to cease, by burning an immense
number of papets in the office of the general
police—for having retained in place, not
withstanding the repeated complaints of the
legislative corps, guilty minifters—for enor
mous speculations, and keeping agents
guilty of fcaudalous difapidrtions ot the
treasures of the Hate—of having afforded its
prote&ion to the plunder of Italy and
Switzerland, which dishonoured the Great
Nation in the eyes of the Universe, and
exciud the iudignation ol all people rgrinft
j. ...V.IIIU, as a nmcrabte lawyer
nore fit to Follow the windings of chicane
ban to c• nduiS the affairs of a mi ;bty Em
>ire* La Rcveillicre Lepaux, as a fanatic,
rbom attention to his hew religion has
jjadelbfe fight of care for the affairs of
jovernaieut. The denirueiation of the
Jirectors was so lowea by that of the
Vliiiiliers—of Scherer, who after paralyzing
he armies by dilapidating, and fuffering to
>e dilapidated, the founds deftififcd for their
upport, took upon himfclf the command
>irly to be beaten by thWnemy:—of Frin
:ois de Neufchateau who' made himfelf the
nllrument of thcDireftorv ia defplaciag
he coullitutcd authorities formed of the
'atriots—Ramel, for having presented falfe.
btements us the Finances, and concealed
he re?l causes of the deficit. TV' three
Direfiturs were immediately related by
hree Ultra Revolutionids—Gobier, Ex
of Justice under the Convention-*—*
iloger Da os, one of the molt furious Ex
r onventionaliH«—the EiGeneral Moulin,,
vbo had a fubordinatc comcr-and in the war
>f L>a Vendee. A Committee has b:en ap
jointed to enquire whether the deuounced !
jrenerals (hould be put upon their trials, and
t wiil !■ e a difficult matlir fur Scherer and
R.eubi.ll, whole fcacdalous increase of for
une has so much sttra&td the attention of
.hcir«:>cmics, to efcapc ftotn being capitally
punished.
These fiift a<fts- of the victorious party,
were followed by the nomination of General
Mabran to tho command of the armed force
jf Paris, by the acquittal of General Charn
jionct <tnd other officers who were under
trial by a military Com:iiiflu>!V appointed by
the Directory ; by the pi opofal of diftl-iint
meaiures, not vet decreed, tending toapro r
digious redu&ion of the authority of the
Executive power, and an angmentatioii of
that ot ; the Legislative—by measures for
putting the Frontiers in a fpcedy Hate of
defence against any Farcign Invasion—.by
the reparation of the Journal des Hommes
Libres, a kind of peridical Manifefto of the
Tcrriiills, Tyftematically edited by a Com
mittee of the Jacobin FaCtion, and which
the former Directory proscribed at four
times when it was resumed.
After this.explanation it mutt be evident,
thait the late Revolution in Parts is altoge- |
fher jacobin. That of the 18th FruCtklor
(4th of September)* was the work of a Di- !
re&oriii iui'urrcction againlt the Legiljattire 1
—this of.the j'B'th Prairial (16th of June)
was the effort of an InfvtrreCtioir of > the Le
gislative Body against the Directory. It is
remarkable, that in proportion as the theo- 1
ries o{ Revolutions conic to perfection, th#y
become less languidly.. At'tlJfctime of the |
Convention, matters wcr? only decided by
battles and profcriptioits ; that of Thermi
dor produced barbarous and l'avag# tranfpor- :
tations ; in the late one, the-retreat of the
Diroitors and the displaced Miuifters rrfco)- '
t)lfs the disgrace' of Minilters under the for
mer Government—-th<-y retired xA the coun- ,
try plr.ces. Will .the- pre lent <?pd in the |
fame tranquilityThat cannot.be expected ;
altar the auiuiatec'aud violent debates which
pioduct-d a Revolution, tobe peaceably ter
miti.ltcll, what'we may build fonie prei'uinp
tion upon is, on the latitude. under wliich
tliat nation seems i'uifcr from the cifufion of
blood and,the proscription of its inhabitants.,
What intiuence is it liktly to have on tlte
enemy,abroad ? That we'fliall contider in
our Paper to-morrow, as <Jur limits this day
would be inlpfficiem for that piirpofe. As
to the cfie£ts it may produce iivtlie interior,
■we have,only a freH] proof that, in so volc*-
nic-a nation as 'France, » representative can
never bf more than 3 convultive Government
and that to pretend to eftablifli a solid and
permanent peace with a ,Government foun
ded on so fickle a balls, is no better than to
attempt to erect a citadel upen a moving
sand, and convincing us by the Revolution
which has jufi taken place, that the powers
of Government, placed in the hands of nu
merous assembly, more lieceltarily become'
more democratic, confidently nioi-e bor
dering vjion anarchy, and farther removed
than befortkfrdm that concentrated authori
ty,. which alone can give solidity and ener
gy. N 1 [ LOll, Daily Ad.
ZN. r. D. Ad.
Mr. Williams, a decided Fcderalift, is
ele&.d to rep relent the full fouttieru diftritl
of MalTnchufetts, in the next Congress.
The Frigate United States is arrived at
New-Port, R. JL where it is expe&cd Ihe
will remain about three weeks.
It is laid fiie is going on u cruize of ten
months, —supposed to the east of France and
Spain.
DIED] —on Thursday evening last, at
New-York, of the prevailing fever, Mr.
Hay Stevf.nson, merchant of that city.
On Monday, the 9th inft. of the prevail
ing fever,at Greenwich, Mr. James Grant
late a merchaut in Philadelphia.
Five deaths were reported at the Health
Office for the last 24 hours ending yesterday
at 12 o'clock;
The Frigate ADAMS, commanded by
R. V. Morris, Esq. got under weigh Jroro
the Nortji river, yesterday morning, and
dropt down as far as the Watering place.
Ok galling Governor's Island she hove too
and fifed a Federal salute, which was an
lwered from the Fort. We understand (lie
19 immediately to repair to hei intended fta-
tion.
NEW-YORK, Sept. 21.
v ■> k
fc-.
Isaac Williams, who commanded a French
privitscr from Guadeloupe, came passenger
in the frhr. Chloe, from Tutk's I (land,
arrived at
touched his native shore, before he was ar
retted. After a few interrogatories by the
civil authority, he was 'ftat to prilon! It
is ioppofed he will be immediatly fuminon
ed before the Diftrift Court now fitting at
Hartford- 6 j
I he U. S. ship Connecticut, Capt. Tryon,
lying in New-London harbour, has received
her guns on bourd '; we understand the- has
already three-fourths ot her compliment of
men.
The Ne* London Gazette fays, our eity
has Hot experienced so healthy a fiimmer for
seven years past.
gparim Hill.
Baltimore, September 20.
List of vessels at Surrinam on the i btb Au
gust, brought by captain Ptarce, of the
schooner Moncrieff, arrived yesterday :
Ship Mechanic, Reeves, for Baltimore,
to fill in 3 days.
Brig Samuel, Bounds, for do. to fail
fame time.
Sclir.. Polly, Frazier, do. do. .
Brig Eliza, Partlet, ditto, cargo not lan
ded.
Briy Guardian, Stevens, do. cargo not
landed.
Schooner cargo not lan.
■ded. >
Sloop Brothers, Hird, do. to fail in 7
days.
Ship Fox, Lincoln, Charlcfton, to fall in
12 dtys.
Ship Dauphin, Wallace, do. to fail in 12
days.
Brig , Glazier, Philadelphia, land-
mg cargCr
Schr. Betsy Holland, Ci'.'fon, do. to fail
in lj days.
Schr. , Ford do. take:) by the French
and brought back.
Brig Star, New York, to fail in 12
days.
Schr, Lucky Owners, Delight, N.cols
do. do.
Schr. Jenuy, Miller, Boston '
Sloop Sally Warner, Buckley, Connecti
cut.
Schr. Synthea, Hinn, Salem
And leveral others names unknown.
Sailed in company with
Ship London Packet, Anderfon, Baltimore
Brig Amelia, Mitchell, do.
Sally, Spooner, Providence
Schr. Harriot, , Boston
Mary, Bowden, Cape Fear
Isabella, Lang, (arrived) Baltimore
Pocqmac, Thompson, (arrived) do.
Atalanta, Wood, New-York
Sloop Lydia, Potter, Providence
Left all except the schooners Isabella, Po
tomac and Atalanta, the day we failed, and
parted company with the Atalanta,, captain
Wood, on the jth September, lat. 31, 51.
long. 63, 30, On the sth September, fat.
34, 25, long. 74, 30, l'poke the lchooner
Harmony, captain Nicholfoji, from Jamai
ca bound to North-Carolina, out 24 days,
out of proviGons, which we fupphed him
with. On the i'6th, spoke the sloop ,
captain Mitchell, from Gape Francois bound
to Providence, 13 days out all well.
Arrived this d ty. j
Ship Sniallwood, capt. Johnson, 34 days
from Kingston.
. R E P, 0 R T -
Of the Scxl&ns of the different grotinds, of
the number of Funerals at their grounds.
■ .*
--- ■ J O
F0» THE 43""tIO<{«r t KMING ■
THIS DAT AT U O'CLOCK. •*
1 < 1 , -JJJ ■ '
S . r '3'
Nahies of the Burial Grounds.
'.Si it.....'
0 o
1 o
' o o
° i
- o o
- .» L O
. « o
- -o o
1 1
a o
2 O
Free Quakers, - - o o
Swedes, " . - - , , o ©
German Lutheran, - i i'
Crei man Vielbyterian, i o
Moravian, - . .. o o
BnptitV - o o
Nlethodift, • - - o <5
Univeriulift, ' o 6 .
Jews, ' W' o o .
~ " - , o ? o' i
- - ; O 2 .
: o I-V
" / • -*3-;
Total 30 6 i
Cliiilt Cuuivh,
St. Pettis,
St. Pauls,
ill Prefbyteiian,
2d do.
3*l do.
Scots Presbyterian,
Aflbciate Church,
St. Mary'?,
Trinity,
Friends
African Episcopal,
do. Mcthodift,
Keniington,
Public Ground,*
The above list comprehends alt the burials
from the City and Liberties of every disease
By order of the Board of-Health.
CITY HOSPITAL.
Admitted, in the last 48 hours, fourteen.
Died, in the last 48 hours, twelve.
* Interred in the Public Ground the last
48 hours, - - 23
Remaining in the Hofpitalyi, of whom
32 are convalescents, and eleven children
who were admitted in good health.
" s*-.-- \ \ ' IV ' -■
«v
II
V?
Total
WILLIAM ALLEN,
Health Officer.
Difchargtd, eleven.
PETER HELM, Steward.
At a meeting of a number of the citizens
of Philadelphia, convened by public no
tice, at the Union fehool-houfe, in Ger
manic wn, on Saturday the 21 ft of Sept.
1799, for the purpose of nominating suit
able persons to fill the fereral offices
which will become vacant at the enfuinc
Election.—
LEVI HbLUGWQRTH,
was appointed Chairman
WhereupO'i it was linanimoufly refolvedj
That the wil'dom, integrity, reclpatriotifm,
uniform principles, and affabce demeanor of
JAMES ROSS, ot Pitt&urgh, eminently
qualify him for the dignified station of Chief
Magistrate of this commonwealth, and jult
ly entitle him to 4he fuffrages of his fellow
citizens and that the perfous composing
this meeting will give their votes, and ex
ercise their influence, to promote his election
to .that office.
approves of the nomination of John Tones,
of Lower Dublin, by their fellow, citizens of
this county ; and will support him and Jo-
Resolved unanimoully, That Michael
Kefpele, Samuel W. Fisher, William Hall,
George 10x, Godfrey Haga, arid Robert
Frazer, deserving and poffcflilig the confi
dence of this meeting, be recommended to
the choice of our fellow-citizens as Mem
bers of the House of Representatives.
•Resolved unanimoafly, that the gentle
men whofe'names are mentioned in the fol
lowing tickets, are well qualified to ferv?
our fellow-citizens in the corporation of
Philadelphia.
Seleft Council.
Samtiel Mickle Fox, Samuel Coates, John
Miller, junior, and Abijab Daivesi
Kearney Wharton, John Rugan, Ihomas
Culbberi, Joseph M'Gijffin, Laurence Her
bert, Daniel Smith, Htnry Drin/ier, jun l
Michael Keppele, Thomas P. Cope, Joseph
Hopk/nson, Th mas Parker, George. F la
sted, (' i HUI Wells, Malcom M'Don
.aspar IV. Morris, Jonathan Jones,
Paschal Hcllingsivorth, Edward Penning
ton, TimCtbj Paxson, ami James Milnor.
Refolvcd, That J. Wail, M. Keppele,
and Jofliua Humphreys be a committee to
ieform our fellow-citizens of the county of
Delaware, that this meeting approves of the
nofnination of John Jones, of Lower Dub
lin, and earneltly requests their concurrence
and luppoit in favour of the said John
Jones and Joseph Ball, at the eni'uing
eledion.
Ordered, that the minutes of the proceed
ings of this meeting be ligned by the Chair
man and Secretary, and publilhed in the
Philadelphia newspapers.
Levi Hollingswortb, chairman.
Z. P ulson, jun. secretary.
Guardians of the Pcror.
THE Committee of the Guardians of
the Poor, appointed to at end at the
State-Houfc oi) Saturday the 2 t.ft, are par
ticularly entreated to give their attendance
nt the above place, on Tuesday the i4th inft.
at ten o'clock, to advnini'ller Jtlief to the dif
trefled, at which time and place the poor
will attend.
State-Howfe, Sept. 21ft, 1799.
trZr" A Meeting of the General Board of
Gu. ruians ot the Poor is renuefled, at
the Alms Houfr, in the city of Philadel
phia, on Wednef.lay the 25th, at 10 o'clock
in the forenoon, upon bulinefs of impor
tance.
CHARLES SWIFT, PrcfidentJ-
Alm; House, city of Phila
delphia, Sept. 33d, 1799.
MILLY ANDRE & Co.
HAVE not removrd ut of town, and tliejr
have far sale at their healthy store, No.
88, Market llreet corner of fotuh Third street,
A general afToitment of DRY GOODS,
ALSO,
'JuJt rtcc'rved from Virginia,
19 hogsheads of best Virginia i OBACCO
they wiil dispose of on reasonable terms.
Sept. 513. 3teod
JUST ARRIVED,
From London, in the brig Mercqry, C'apt Yardf
lay, and intended to be iandet! in a few days, on
Walnut-flreet wharf.
50 Hdds. Draught Porter, /
96 Cartes Brown Stout, do. in bottles,
40 c;'.(ks fliot, No. i to 6, chiefly 3 & 4,
20 Hhds. Superfine Whiting,
10 Calks Green Copperas,
8 Hlids. Ground Lead, viz. Red, White,
Spanish Brown and Ground Paints,
Black Yellow and Venetian,
4 Cartes Glauber Salt 3.
1 do. e ch of Crude Antimony, Cream
Tartar and Sal Carthatamac,
1 do. Allum com.
20 Half barrels Gun Powder, FF—C &c.
Said BRIGA'NTINE,
£"3 cl As flie came from sea, in ft copper
ed in Londen, with the bed quality
ITTmTO copper, armed with 12 eighteen
>jrSS-'.tljfcpoHnd carronades, and 4 long fixes,
frn:tl 1 a "«s, boariline netting, &c,
1 his velfel is cempletely equipped, and in a fupe
linr liyle, burden aftove 1700 barrels—Sails re- 1
mtrkably Jaft For file by
THOS. W JOHN KETLAND.
Sept. 13- di4t
John J. Parry,
WATCH-MAKER,
INFORMS his friends and the public, he has
removed for the feal'on from his (hop in Se
cond-street to the next honfe to the poft-officc in
Trenton, opposite the Market, where all orders
in his line wi.l be executed with particular care
and attention.
An excellent aflbrtrfieut of Silver Ware and
Jewelery, and Gold and Silver Watches, for Sale
as above.
■ \ *
3° 6
Trenton, Sept, 4, T799.
Common Council.
1 3ta»4*rvic'' > "
■ J. 1
" 'aK*
> '
V 1
,fe •.. ,*V