treasury
PUBLIC NOTICE !S HEREBY GIVEN,
».■■'"rtrj&iirsvsjis.-iss•
a w ,
ted throughout tiie Umted Stat.t. (
For every Ctin or piece of Vellum or
written or printed any either of the infiruro.nt. or writing.following m i
Any Certificate of Naturalization - .r reg'iftry of
A 10 !
Umted Statu? - * ' , , Q r t k e United States a
tor *• s "'" .
4 <;s:£irr s «■« ,
ccpt fcr land, granted for mt Kary service. J - _ t
Any Lharter-Par.y, Bottcmry, or Refpondentia w;u or _
Any Receipt or difebarge for or on C °"" t * f g Jrt ot a pcr fona\ etote di
ther teHamentary inflrumeut, or for any Biare p , h Wife. Chil
lided by force ofany flatute be
dren or Grand Children of the pe o ex ceed the value of One Hun
above the value of Fifty Dollar., and (hall not exceed the value »
dred Dollar., - * . th * a i ue 0 f Ooe Hundred Dollar, and
When the amount thereof Gull exceed tn _
(hall no* exceed five dollar,, - fjm of ,
Any 'iPolicy'of mftr»n>ent «y fti* veflel or
r£ ;£uSidvz ss? £«? the fumfor which
feal'of any 1
r n, f »h#» nO of the Un : f«d States or some particular liite,
dollar, and not exceeding one hundred " *°
If above or e hundred dollar, and not exceeding five hundred drilars 25
If Ibove five hundred dollars and nor exceeding one tho.And dollars, $•
And it above one thousand dottars, * " ... r j..
Pro-vidtd, that if a«y bonds or note, Ihall be payable at or within fix y y.,
ft.ch bonds or notes fl>»!l be fnbjeft to only two fifrh parts ot the duty
If and not exceeding one hundred daUat., .- I 4
If above one hundred dollar, and not exceeding five 10
If above five hundred dollars and not exceeding' one thousand dollars, 20
If above one thousand doilars, - " , "*
Any Notes issued by the banks now e<Ublifted, or that naay. be eftab
Whed «ithiu the States, other than the note, of iuch of the 'aidßanks
i, (hall aeree t. an annual composition, of one per centum on the annual di
vidends nadeby such Backs, to their Stockholders refpeihvely, according to
the following scale. - , „ 5
On ail notes not exceediag fifty dollars, for each dollar, " "
• On all notes above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars jo
Cn all notes above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - ' 1
Ob all fic>fe« above five hundred dollars, - 3
Ahv l'r#ttft or other Notarial ai£l, - - " * . "5
Any Lrttti of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or .el. A ar
rant! f-r Land granted by the United States as bounty for military Services
pertormed in th? late war, - . 2 $
\r'v CertiScaieor Debeutnre for drawback of CulU>m» or duties, for left than
f. ,e hur.dred dollar., - - - V
i or five hunoitd dollars and cot exceeding two thousand dollan, 1
or note rhan tuo thousand dollars, • • 3
A« v note or bill of lading for goods or merchandize tblie exported,
It from one didri-S to another diftriA of the United States, not being in the
fame State, - * " . 10
II . rum the United State, to anv foreign port or place, r ♦ !___
A»y inventory or Catalogue of any J0
. ,ht B "" 1 "
- jj
lTu:»der twenty dollai 5, at the rate of ten cents for one
4
The duties aforel aid will be eolleAed and received by the Supervisors, Infpedors aud other Officers
r( lufpeftion', in the several DilirisS", Surveys and DiviGons of the- United States, and by such other
persons as fcall from t» time be specially appointed and employed by the Supervisors of Dillrids for
that puryofe. '
in.
The Supetvifor. of the several Diftrifts will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and as soon as
nny be piaflicable, mark or flamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or parcelsef Vellum, Parch
tiert or Paper, with i,ny of the rates of dutiss before enumerated, on payment ef thefaid duties ; Or
{•arrpetl velluni, parchment and paper n.ay at the option of the Citizens of the United States, be ob
uintd at the ratev prefenbed by law, hj applii.ticji Vo any Cupervilor, InfpeSar, Officer of Infpedion,
or vih.r psifon appointed lor the diflribution of Stamps, by the Superviforsof Diflricis
GIVEN under my HauJ, at Pbiltulclpbit
the day and year abwmentioned.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March 10. Secrtlarj of the Treajury.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands agaiuft
the estate bf Willam Flecwtood, of
Liverppd, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are rcquefted to exhibit their accounts,
properly attefltd ; and thole who are indebted
to the fame, are difirtd to make immediate
payment, ta
GEO. DOBSON, \ .. .
No. i s , So. Tliird-flreet. > Admir.iflr r
January 4. * dtf
Just Published,
And te be had at the Book-fkres of Messrs. Bob
.. son, Campbell, Yodnc and Orssr*d,
thi ir Philadelphia,
ed 1 OBSERVATIONS
they On the Caulci and Cure of Remitting *r Bilious
late '• Fevers,
any los T» tvkicb it annexed,
•ver, AN ABSTRACT of the options and praAiee of
to c* different authors: and an APPENMX, exhib
iting intrrefling fa&s and iffUclion? relative to
jrjj' the SyntxLm IRtroidts, or Yellow Fever, which
his cctaGoned so much distress Mi mortality,
mt different periods, in several *f the seaport
towns of th« I'nited States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE,
y' Felow of the Philadelfhia College of Physicians,
and Member of the American Phil*,'of hical So
ciety. Feb. I—*3mj
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
yf valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-cast comer of Wal
nut and Fifth flreets, fronting the State-
Hcufe square. This lot is fifty-one feet front
cn Walnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street ; there arc at
present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon.
Alfa, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftcres, wharf, Bte. fituateon
Water street, between Mulberry ani Saflafras
Streets, containing in front cn Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth caft
ward ninety-fire feet, then widening to the
IV-1. I 1 thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
1 »\e the convenience of a publ'c alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
eiilioa for a a merchant, flour faAor, or others
Mho may have occasion for ftoxage of goods.
Thi» property will be Cold on very reasonable
•. ■ irs stir rash. For further information apply
to the printer.
Ju.y 31. mjcwtf
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propoGng (o contra® his busi
ness, offers this Estate for sale, cn moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnace*,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Milt, with two pair of stones; a good Forge, all
in perfeft repair,aaaie allthe Water Works conneft
ed with thefc varioui branches. The Air Furnacea
were lately built for the purpose of railing Cannon
for thia State.—There are abou' two thonfaod acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay and
Pallure. The Cannon lately mannlaciiercd there,
fully pso V £s the excellency of the metal, which is
(uperior to any in this country, and probably, equal
to any io the world ; for not one of fixty-niiie guns
lately made, althr ugh some of the 14 were bored
in'o 32 pounders, hare failed on proving. The fuu
ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
manufacture, aad a place of arms lying in the «ate
of Connecticut,and only 30 miles from several land,
ings on the Hudfon't river, and having every advan
tage that can result from • plenty of water issuing
from 4 large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into 4 variety of other
ufeful purposes. The purchaser can beaccommodat
ed with ail the flock and ultnfils, and have possession
on or before the firfl of Junenext, and preparation
may be made in the mcao Lime for going into Blalf im
mediately thereafter, for every pan will be delivered
ir, good order, wiih some coal.Oie, &c. &c. For
terms, apply to Mr Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Elq. one of the Reprefcntaaves
in Congress for t has Sate j Mr, 8,v, 0 Waterman, oo
uiepremjles, or to the proprietor in New-York
WILLIAM NEILSOJJ.
ucc, t •
3»wtf
NOTICE.
A Manufactory cf yellow and delft ware,
Such as si ever was in this Country before, has bevn
been lately erefted at Tivnfi, Red Hook. Landing
onthe Ea(l g,„k D f Hudlon's River, ft, e of Ne
York where any ar tlc le of various sons and ftiapes
may be executed, , s well as ear.hern Roves uroi, a
new conßiu&ion, that saves three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in cast iron floves or open chi mnies •
Syi"gt erywh ° ,efon,e ,nd by*
... J- mouchet
Wanted a (killful hand to attend to the bakin- and
gh»ng part of the said w.r«. Generous appo" .
menrs will be given. Apply ,„W.„e. or to
david brooks, Es q .
rrf) No. 71 South s th Street.
eod,ps
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre° f t h« city—for which a gonercu,
rent will be given ; ,0 be taken lor a ye J,
more for a longer term. Inquire of th« Printer
O,S - ' 7 * cots
proposals,
Infurmue Compl'njof, j?
e'er Insurance ri » t Jr , « p»
u r rt Ware-Houses, of^er 5 in
Hoblct, are
on Goods dontained 10 such Budding ;
Philadelphia, lo United States. q
~' Comm.n luftirarcZ~on harard, of thefirft FJ
eW>f wi,i bo -
half P'r cent, per annum, for . vhich <J
rifqars a larger premium will be req q ,
will Viiy according to circumtt^nce»,
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; b«mfome*-
fiances, where the property infore^ ! ftifi 'J [o
itfelf extra hazardous, bat rendered I ft. « »«re I t<
by the vicinity of extra hazardou"
occupations, the premium demanded i
accocdiiH* to circumstances. . J'
Homfe, =nd Vare Hoofes, the walls and part - b
tioiis of which arc wholly of ftot.c or hrtck, writ
c„nllr«<3jed, so ai to he jruarded « weU a* may be
s.rjinil fires from within, and tree trom ix-ra (_
iarfc.us bladings and occupations in tilr,r " c, » h "
b»rlioed, will be domed hazardous of the tint
class, a r d may be insured to their so- vali'.'.
J».llb 60tick anJ Meiehandiz , -not oj un extra
hazardous kind, in caflco. bales, • r packages, <4e
v-olitcd*. such buildings, to an amount cot ex
tee Jing 4000 dollars ; bat if more than this lam
is required to be mfured in one tenement, 1 11 1 r
tional premium will be req :.red, in proportion to
circuroftarwes. ,
11. Insurances will also be ma«Je on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proport.oned J
to tha risque. But it is not easy to arrange thele
under particular heads or classes, so as to oefcribe
each with the necessary Each cafe mu.t
therefore be decided upon according to the circum
[lances a-tsnding it ; and these circumftar.ees w:>i,
in general, appear from the description accompa
uymg the application.
Bu.ldings partly conflruSed of hrick or it one,
are preftra!?le to thofo wholly wooden. And in ]
both cafits, the stile of bulling, how they are oc- i
cMjiied, how they are faulted, # thc neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are confederation* to
betaken into view. And with refyedt to goods,
their'tendsncy, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are exposed, either
W commence or to iacreafe an accidental fire, aRd
their liability in fueh state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden and hasty removal, or to be tlo
leu in time of confufioii and hurry, are all cir
cumlUnces of weight ; and ths premiums must be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following condition! are to be under,
ftoed by the parties .
ill. The lnfurar.ee is not binding till the ftipu
lat«d premium be paid ; but it lhall be deemed ef
fectual from the time of such payment and accrp
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
«d. Infnrances may ba renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
pense* than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumstances continuing the fami
as they were understood by the lofurtrs at the time
i the former insurance was ma<i* ; but the paymeut
of the premium is essential to such renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; hot can the insurance be renew
ed en the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
gf the former Ibfurance. The fubjeA of insur
ance may neverthslefs be open to treaty for a new
infuiance.
3d. If »"y other infiirance be made on the fame
property ; it must be made known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
_ wiU b,e,v . |n .. | 1 "
thty are hoc tobe eocfidered as infuied otherwise.
5 th. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occalioa»d by any for
eign invauan, or by any military or ui'otped force,
or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept ia the building, or amongfi: the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
-5 ritiet, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
missory Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
r nor are paintings, medal*, jewels, gems, antique
curiofitie>, or mirrors exceading the value of twen
ty-live dollars each, to be considered as insured uh
-5 less particularly mentioned and by special agree
" mcnt.
r 7th. No insurance will be made for a ftiorter
" term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe
> ve» years. Persons choosing to infare for seven
years lhall be allowed one year's premia'm by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium lhall
be abated m like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Lofles sustained by fire en property insured,
- fliall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A defci iption of the property to be infurod will
e be expeded with each application, to be made by
a mailer carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by th« owner of the building ot applicant for in-
II furance, aad attefled before a Notary or principal
. Magistrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
, parties and their credibility.
With refpeft to Houfet and other Buildings,
® ift. The site and ppfninn ; delcribing the
j street or road on or nJar which the building
stands j its cbntiguity to water, and other cir
-14 cumftances relative to the extinguilhment of fiie
il in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
is any and what fire companies arc eftiblifted, and
d engines provided,in the place or neighbourhood.
ad. The materials »f which it is built, whe
' ther of brick, Hone or wood, and what part of
® each, aa well as to the ouifidc walls as infideor
_ partition walls, and their refpeftive height and
g thickness ; the fty!e of the roof and of what
r , materials ; how secured by baltlements
:r ty walls ; what kind of access to the top of the
house and to the chimnies j whether any and
n what eledlric rods ; the number and kind of
n fire places ; and the kind of deposit for aDies.
'j 3d. l'he ditnenfions of the building and how
ir divided, and the-ilyle in which it is finiOied so
I. as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
■j manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
n injury ; the *ge and condition of the building,
and how occapied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pose , also aa eftiraate of the value of the house
- or build.mg independent of the ground.
4th. Tr.efituatiop with refpedl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
at tJ'ftißce, how built, of what materials, and
es how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
» lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
• ried #n, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
lited in the house, or within the distance afore-
and ot what kind.
, Rtfpeflinggoedj ia Houfts, Warehouses, &c.
I. A general description of the building in
Til r^ y K bc CX P eaed ' ' n
'* l' J O,hed,0 S">ft"n lire, with that
- fel,a In^ran « °n the buildings them
». A description of the kinds and nature of
ar goods, whether in calks or other packages
us or opened ; , nd whether riifplayed in whole'
tfT " th# U,UII fcr ™ tor retailing. Anrf
if the goods vary materially in kind, a' general
cftimate cf the value of each kind t o
be inlured ; but U U!l uUf miDUte '
neli of description is not expected.
з. Articles of the followmg kind'. „
parked ; Looking ptafTc, jewelery s «daj o |e
ther articles mot. thai, commonly to
or ft ore than commonly liable to .njy J b«
d,n removal or by .no.flures, or particularly (h
obnoxious to theft oa an alarm or nre. _ m
T paid* dire<sUd to the Secrctar) m
tl,e Board of Dlredlors. will be duly th
An •rder for Insurance sccompanied by the w
mean, of paying the premium, V.Joe mm - n ,
diately e«ecuted on the prem,«m 1-e.np l»» ■• J,, o
j tl-.e application contain an
be mUcred. • s
Bv of ihe B<Krr"> ar
gBENEZER HaZAKD, Slc ry.
Ofict 'i/tbe Insurance Ccmpany t/Nori* ?
" America ; Pbdad. ?tb. t, 1798" J
Feb. 14- j r
For Sals,
A good fitu?.tion for a Country sE
l Olf I V acres of land on the Old V ark Road,
wi hb fight of Germantown and about five miles,
from the City, tW whole be in- under go.d .ence, q
ami in excellent order as pallure grounn.
For further information and terms, W P
Elliott Cresson, at his office tor the
sale of Real Estates, Conveyancing, &c. i\o. J4»
liigh-ftreet. j
ad mo. a6th.
Balkenridge —lor lale i
TT consists of 920 acres, almost all o{ " '
1 a fine rich Meadow, (the refidenceof the late (
Eirl of Sterling). It may be convemendy dixuled
into five farms, four of whicfrare bounded oa the (
East hv the river Pafaiek.
There are on it a number of buiWmgs, for "" n 5 ,
a fauare of nearly three aeres-The dwellmj house
t, l vary convenient one and a small expence would
~1 ajnple Trees—and there .s on other pirts of Cfid
и,a P »«r>0other Apple rrees-«.alfo a gr«t
variety of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
: best and most delicious kinds. . ,
AUe a great number of beautiful Exot.es and
• Foreime£ «h« add to th. beauty-»d eo»vem
erce of the place. Its f.tuatwn >• abe«t 18 wiles
from the towns of Newark and EUabeth : .0 do..
• from Morris-Town, and ia from Springfield
• is wooded and watered. . , - cre
r To live trouble, the price .s five pound pr acre
incalh, oa delivery of the d«di. Please t
Ir T. McEUEN Sc. Co.
I qU No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February ». eodtf
! "Hoafe and Lots, in Bordentowr..
t r-ipo BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
i 1 with the Lot on which it is ereifted, fituat
r ed about the middle of the beautiful and healthy
e Village of Bordentown. The house is forty
two feet in front y and in neat order. l ot
" contains one acre, is one hundred feet on J
e the main street, and extends with the fame
n breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot, eon
" taining nearly four acres, feparattd from the
" former by back street. One third only ot th«
pnrchafie money will be required upon execut
r ing a deed, ar.d for tbe remainder, such credit
t For turrtier-jarticrfars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, reGding in Bordentown, near
- the premises, who will'fcew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
■t Conveyancer, No. 43, Mulberry-street.
'- December a. 3awtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
-
FOR SALE,'
nnHAT well krewn Estate, called SHREWS
' X BURY FARM, formerly the residence of
e General John gadwaiader, lituate on SafTafrars Ra
ver, in Kent ceunty, Maryland—containing a
bout 19C8 acres of prim: LAND, upwards of 500
®f which are in woows. The BuildiHgs are all ex
cellent, aad confill of a handsome Dwelling House,
r two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
n granary, two Overseer's houses, two ran-,
J ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of Vricfc), C«rn houses, a Smoak
house , &c. &c.—The whole Estate being nearly
surrounded by water, U requires but little fencing,
T' and has a good Shad and Herring fifhety. It is
conveniently fitaated for both the Philadelphia and
~ Baltimore markets, with two landings on a nivi
-1 gable river but a lhort fail from Baltimore. There
.s a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on
as the piemifes; also, a Variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mostly a rich loom.—
3 The whole will ba fold together, or divided into
smaller farms (for which she buildings are conven
iently situated) as may suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm, consisting of Horses, Cattle,
le Sheep, &c. will also be difpofsd of.—— For further
g particulars apply to Georoe Hastings, on the
r- premises, or to the ftrbferiber, in Philadelphia.
e ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jvm.
cr February 14. law6w
Netu-Tork, February, 1798.
a - PiJOPO^Z,SbyGEORGEFORMAN,
TOR PRINTINC BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix months—entitled
lt p ROOFS of aCONSPIR AC Y ag-.anft
r- J- a 'l 'he Religions and Governments of EU
|e ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
;d Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. Col
leded from good authorities
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
W Pnfejfvr of Natural Pbilcfofby, and Secretary to the
'o Royal Society of Edinburgh.
it A am tua res agitur paries cum prtximut ardet.
r ''"IS work will be put to prefsas soon as
fubf.ribers are obtuinecl, and 110 money requir
:l" ed un "l the wosjt is completed— It lhall be print
r- ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of su
e perior quality, which will comprise about 400
pages neat octavo, handsomely bound and lettered
d- —tbe price will be one dollar aad fifty cents,
or Those who procure 12 fubferibers, and become
tt accountable, lhall have a 13th gratis—and the u
in fual allowance to hook fellers.
id
:1- *,* The above work comes from the pen of J.
e- Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
r _ eftimat.Oß : n the literary world—the fa<fts therein
ly recorded are well fuKlautiatc ', and thereafoning
0 . and arguments thence deduced, while they diTco
e- v " tlle f°'.rid judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amule as well a» to in
c. .-' l ' fccn£ us villainy is developed by the
in author Sufficient to appal the ftsutefl heart.—The
in , ° K f r to be apprrhtnded from secret societies is
4t . ar y ° ut 5 the de R f n«racy of human na
ture awfully kUulirat«d, and the hazard of every
deviation irsm the straight path of religion and
oi vutue, mconteltibly pfoved both to the politi-
Z by stubborn 'Und incontro
.rf hG " Forman, Kc. 46,
Id t IVnttaa-Jir at. .ppcfiu tie P.JI. Ofrt, ard ty the re/peel
Custom Holse,
Di.lria of PENNSYLVANIA, March 6tl, 1797,
r T I HE MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
1 who may have any account or kaowledge of
the capture or detention of any fljip or vessel, ear.
go, or other property, belonging to citizens of the
United Staus, refidlng within this Jiftria, by or
under the authority 01 foreign nation', since the .
firfl day of Oflober, 1792, sre particularly reqnef
ted to give in information thereof, to the Collec
tor Port of Philadelphia, as soon at may
be convenient; fpecifying the name of the vessel,
the captain's name, the number of tons, the cfli
mated value of the vessel, if caiidemDtd, the eCi
mated value of her cargo, or other property, whi
ther tarried, and by, or under the authority of
what nation captured, with futh observations as
may be thought necefiary upon the eircuis!lance»
of each cafe, in order that Itaternents thereof may
be tr.rfmstted to the Secretaty cf the Treasury,
who is required to !ay the fame before the Senate
and Houfs of Representatives of the United State*.'
march 7 - ?iot
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the minufi&ore of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House iu
Boston.
It is needless to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of theßoft.n Glass, as it isfo well knows
throughout the United States to be in every ref
pe3 gieat'y superior to any ever imported Irons
Europe.
It will be cut to any size commonly used ; and
may be cenftantly had by applying to CbarUi F.
Kupfer, at the Glass Hon'.e.
Orders fremthe dillant States robe addressed to
Mr. Samuel Gore, Court-ftr«er, Boilon.
gf Two or threiijooJ Glaf« makers are want-
I ed at the above works; such as can produce re
commendations for good behavior, may be lure of
I employ, by application to Mr. George L. Lindl, u
the'works. Men without families will be pre
! ferred. However unacquainted with the method
of retaking Crown Window Glass, they wiil meet
' with the fame encouragement.
Bollon, January x 6 a.' —2aw6w
|At a Meeting of the President
I and Managers of the Delaware aed Schuylkill
I Canal Company, February 17th, 1798,
S Rrfalvei, That ten doilarsos each (hare of Stick
- be called for ; and that the Treasurer
give public notice. tWrnf igreetfcle
j to law.
Extracl frca tie Mlmitei. .
GEORGE WORRALL, Secretory.
J AGREEABLE to a resolution of ine President
I and Managers cf the DtUnure and Sclyyliill Canal
. Company, the Stockholders are hereby required to
[ | make a payment of ten dollars on each of their
I refpe.stivc ihares on or before the ill of pril nan,
I to WM. GOVETT, Treasurer.
| February sB. aawtA
Three or four Single Gentlemen,
may be acconsmodated with
- j Genteel Boarding and Lodging,
f I On reafcnable terms, by applying at No. 31,
f North-ilreet, between Fifth ani Sixth-Greets
( I February *3. eod3t
e City Commissioner's Office,
. I January nth, 179!
® J FOR THE INFORMATION OF THF CITIZENS.
l " T'HE following arrangement is made by the
it j 1 said ' IUI
1 Diilridt No. 1. —From the north fide of Vine
ftreet,to the south fide of Mulberry street; to
*" be under the fuperioundar.ee of Nicholas Hicks.
ir I «. From the south fide of Mslbrry street, to
I the south fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
J fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
_ j the north fide sf Spruce street, to be under the
j fuperintendance of Joteph Claypon'e.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
fajith fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu-
I perintendance of Hugh Robert!,
j f£T When pumps are oat of order south of
i High-ftrcet, please apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
>- 1 corner of South and Fifth-ftreets, or Godfrey Geb
■" j ler, in Fourth, near Chelhut-ftreet ; and north of
0 High-street, to Dixey and Drharrn, in Saffaftas
j street. between Sixth and Seventh-streets.
E, I
y I New-York, Januarys, 17158;
a PROPOSALS
j By Arondt Van Hook,
jj j Proprietor sf the Reading Room ;
y For Publishing by Subscription,
r> j An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madame Roland j
j Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France.
~ CONDITIONS.
in These scarce and very valuable Hiftorica! Me-
J moirs, (which ran through two London adi
_ I tionsin a few months,) will be compriied in %
o j vols.oiflavs, ol 460 pages each.
1- 1 They will be printed on fine paper and a new
le j f jpe, and delivered to Subscriber», neatly hound
e, j and lettered, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
:r j ume—one third of the Subscription money tobe
>e j paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re'
J mainder w hen the work iscoropleat.
To Printcrs, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscription?, the usual allowance will
be made.
f I tT Subscription! are taken it the Readisg
' I Room, No. 149, Water street—the Printing-
I Office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the differeit
I Bookllores in New-York— Also, by William
n I Young, corner r f Second and Chefnut street, ar.d
j the Editor of the Gazette of the United States a
I Philadelphia.
:e j As soon as a fufficient number of Subfcribert
' I are obtained, the work will be put to preii, and
j com-'eated with the utmost dispatch.
Feb.ao. eodim
ht |
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTS}',
is I A NEW AND INTERESTING WORK, ENTITLED,
A TREATISE
Hon the poLfcE of London,
>0 Containisga detailof the various crimes and ir.if
xi demeaoors, by which public and private proper
ty, arc, at present, injured and endangered :
ie | And fuggeliing remedies for their prevention.
J- I BY A MAGISTRATE,
j A&ing for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kant,
j and ElTex ; for the city and liberty of Weftmin-
J. fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
h I don.
m CONDITIONS.
'g This work will be printed in a targe odavo, o«
°" jan excellent Engiiih paper—lt will be delivered to
b e I fubfcribcrs. bonnd in boards, at the moderate price
n- - of One DiUar and a half; although the lad London
he J edition, oa inferior paper jnd meanly bound, is
be 1 now fold at 'wo dollars and half. T« nen-fub
is I fcrfbers the price will be railed.
a " I Whatever entouragement may be given by fuk
r7 I fcription, it will be committed to the profs wirhoat
id j delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady far
>- I publication eady m April.
j Subscriptions will he thankfully foceivedat
I Benjamin Bavies's's bcck-tloie, No 68, Higiv
6, I street, and by of ths otheV bookfellersi* the
rc ' I c 'ty'■ hy GeergeHifl, is Baltimore; and by Saci-
I uel Campbell, and A. Ptvi&mond, in New-York,
j January ji. - :antA