(£a?Ctte of m Unit#) States, ill aily Advertiser.
By John Fenno, N O, ii 9 Cbefnut Street.
NUMBSX 172 £.J
STATEMENT of jiutunu of the InfpeSors of the Htrllth-Ojfict for lis City and Port
"* Marine Hospital Expenditnres—No. I.
T« n . Paid John Dtrffield, for attending patients, ... I 69
,j. Caleb Lownes, for nails, - ( - 94 10
James Mease, en account of repairs &e. - • a liU
30. Pearfon & Lc-vis, for 1 Ledger, - 4
Feb. a. John Marfeall, for paints, nils, &c. • 77 4 1
Mar. 17. Steir.er $c Karaerer, fur publiihing accwints, t "
13. Heatfrl>orbury, on a«count, - - 410
19. Thomas Dobfon, for Stationary, • - 5 ** 4»
April 5. H?ath Norbury, on account - - 4 3*9 S"
xq. Nefbitt & Battifs, clerk and melTenger in Health-Office,#ne quar
ters fa!ary each, - • 7 *J°
jo Betton & Harrifen, for medicine, , - « 8 91 6a
it. "William Allen, balance of bis account, . - 9 88 50
Do. rent of Health-Office, . - 10 36 67
Wells & Morris, for Ironmongery, - XX 48 5*
Msy I* Daniel Humphreys, for priming, - - 13 14 *7
10. Heath Norbtiry, on account, » . l| Ij» *•
Charles Kamfay, for stone, * . 45
June j. George Petts, for laying stone, - - > 7'
Heath Norbury, on account, . * 14 r & 3
July 7. Do. D«. * , - »J J»J 9*
Aug. 2. Co. Do. - » 16 170 10
10. Thomas Da»i«, for repairs t» Hospital, • -■ 17 195 57
11. William Buck, for carriige hire, » • 34
William Allen,on account, - • 18 ao*
Sept. 4. Heath N»r'*ury, on account, 19 iso
ao. William Jones, for repairing t>6 wharf, . 30 40
OA. 6. He»th Norbury, on account, • * 21 334 <4
Nov. 1. Do.- Q». _ - - - a* 126 11
Dec. 6. Tow and Penfon, tut information against the ship Hinde, 13 90
Heath Norbury, on account, - -14 414 85
Thomas Bickham, for mending the Health Barge - 15 5 17
Dollars 373T 71
♦ ' .
Settled by the Ccmwittee appointed 13th December, 1797,
JAMES WOOD,
JOHN STARK,
SAMUEL BRECK,j«n.
March 6th, X79*—Approved by the Board,
SAMUEL HODGSON, Chairman of the Board of liealtk-
City Hospital Expenditures for 1797 Na. 11.
Jfi. Dolh. Centy.
Jan. xi. Paid Thomas Hood, balance of account, 8 at
31. Nicodemus Lleyd, for iro.iwork, 5 85
Feb. 38. Andrew Brown, for advertifmg, a 33
April 26. Wells fc orris, for ironmongery, ja 44
Aug. io. John So fKck, for hauling funJriea, * 18
19. James U h.tchcad, for lundrics, % 325
is. Daniel Kn ght, for work done, 3 120
James I ho 1 plot), on account* 4 87 if
28 William Alien, on account, j 300
Sept. t. Benjsmim Kite, to purchafc'uppliei* 6 ij°
4. James 1 hompfon, on account, 7 Ijo
7. John Sc. jauiet >Vhitehead, do. 8 170 4,6
8. Benjamin Kite, to purchaCe fuppliei, J x»o "
9. James Smith, for cleansing infe&ed houses, »° »°«
IX. John Sims, f r painting, . 11 80
John Letchworth, to purchafc supplies* x» xco
12. Do. Do. 13 aoo
Do. balance of Benjamin Kites account, T4 IJ <J
Ij. Do. to purchafc supplies, is aoo 1
16. James Thoropfon, on account, U> ieo
iS. John Letchworth, to purchafc supplies, 17 aoo
19. William Allen, on account, xJ 300
ti. James Thorapfan, on account, xo*
•»- John Leicli worth, to purchase fupplie*, ao ae®
53. "WtUiim Allen, on accouat, »t 40*
jB. JohnLetehwo.-tK, to purchase supplies aa ao*
3c. James Thomplon, on account, J3 lo*
&A- 3- John Letchworth, to purchafc supplies, J4 200
10. ® 0- Do. ' *" jo»
12. James Thompson, on account, 16 Jot)
16. Do. Do. tj too
1 7 , James Smith, for cleanGng houses, 18 50
19. John Letchworth, to purchase supplies, 39 aco
ao. William Allen, on account, 30 ia*o
J4_ James Thompson, on account, ji too
30. Do. Do. 32 300
Nov. 4. William Allen, on account, $ ' 33 job
6. Miller, Forde & Monrgomery, to purchase flankfcarea for?
the Consulting and Visiting Physicians, 5 3S°°
William N<fbitt, clerk in the Health-Office for extra ferrices, 3 j ij»
Elijah Battifs, for do. 36 jo
Job Craighejd, for burying a man, 37 15
John Miller, jun. for Pe'er Helm, 38 350
iy. James Th mpfon, on account, 39 190 3t
jg, William Allen, ori account, 4s 400
J4, Michael Leib, for medicine, ' 41 94
Henry Chamberlain, for work done, ' 4» 44 79*
Thomas Brown, for work done, 43 ai 59
J5» Doilor Coxe, for meiJic-ine, 44 30
Dee. 4. James ; »i>th, balance of his account, 45 107 49
14. Evan Truman, for wood, 46 26 aj
James Ktrr, for mending a hearse, 47 10
Dollar* 11,342 68
Settled by the Conjmitte appointed 13th December, 1707,
JAMES WOOD,
JOHN STARR,
I SAMUEL BRECK.jun.
March 6th, 1798 —Approved by the Board,
SAMUEL HODGDON, Chairman to the Board of Health.
Dr. Marine and City Hospital in General Acctunt with the InfpeSors »f the He*lth-OfjiiC t
for 1797.
""a imAiint nf Mnritl# Hflfnifal PTHfB« Ru Kalanr* It* f\f fliH
?o amount of Marine Hospital expen
ditures per Treasurer's acct. No. I 3711 ji
■To amount of City Hospital expendi
ture*, per TreaforerVacci. No. IL 1134 a 62
To one months interest of 1000 dollars
borrowed of Jame9 King, J JQ
"o balance in the hands of James Old"
den, Treasurer to the board, 14
Dollars 15070 13
"e John Gardner, jun'rs. borrowed note,
per contra, not yet due, and which
will appear irt the acct. of 1798 3S°°
ÜB. Several accounts yet owing for
supplies and services, the amount of
which cannot be exactly ascertained,
will probably make, together with
the above Bote, 5500 dollars, due by
the institution.
On the itth day of March 1798, we the Subscribers met at the City Hall, and carefully exam
ledthe written account of the Infpedlors of the Health-Office of the City and Port of Philadel
phia, and the accounts and vouchers rilating thereto, and do find the within to be a true ftaternent
•"?the said Account. HILARY BAKER, Mayor of the City of Philadelphia.
ALEX. WILCOCKS, Recorder of tr.c City of i'hilad. '
JACOB SERVOSS, Juliice of the Peace N. L berties.
WM. ROBINSON, Jufticc of the Peace for Dift. South.
Subfcriber informs those
I to whom he it indebted, that a person wilt
end every Jay, Sundays excepted, until the ift
1 April next, from the hours of xo o'clock in the
.• 3rnipg till jo'clock in th* afternoon, at thehoufe
• > -merly occupied hy him ia Chefnnt-flreet, for
- : putpole of {hewing all books, papers and let.
• s regarding his pall commercial tranfiiSions to
■h of his creditor? as may think proper to attend
- 1 examine them.
JAMES GREENJLEAF.
'nan.h 1 tax [ \
PHILADELPHIA: FRIDAY EVENING, MARCH 16, 1798.
/>/•
By balance in the hands of Gide*n H.
Wells(Trcafurer) ift January, 1797, 1191 1
By cash received by James KiHg of John
Baker, County Treasurer, IjOO
By proceeds of John Baker's three notes
difcounttd at Bank of Peanfylvania, J936 34
By proceeds of John Gardiner, jun'rs.
borrowed note, 3500 dollars, dis
counted at ditto, 346 a 77
By proceeds of John Baker's note, dis
counted at ditto, 1980
13070 13
Settled by the Committee appointed 13thDec.i 797.
JAMES WOOD,
JOHN STARR,
SAMUEL BRECK, jun.
March 6th, 1798, approved by the Board.
SAMUEL HODGD JN,
Chairman of the Board of Health.
LANDING,
AND FOR SALE,
The Cargo of the ship Fair American,
Same# Burke, matter, from Aux-Cay« 5| now ly
ing at Bell's wharf,
eoNsisTiNe or
Molasses, Coffee, Sugar and Dye
Wood, J
Apply to
ISAAC HARVEY", jun.
3 ma. i. <j tw St south Water-ilreet.
For Sale,
HARRIOT,
NOW lying at Ruflil's Wars
Burthen ti!i>—three yon ol 1, built of the be ft
materials and is well found—would answer well
for a coatter, n (he has eieellent accommodations.
foi terms apply to
Gttrney iy Smith.
march IJ 5
for Boston,
The Ship
s^£sk> t- COMMERCE,
MfflpSJSv RicliarJ Waiftco*t, Majter.
OryaT To fail ill a lew dayt..
Any freight that may offer,
will be taken on v«ry moderate terms , for which,
or paffags, apply to the Captain, or to
IJaac Harvey, jun.
5, South VV'iter-llraet.
march I*. §'vr
FOR SALE,
Weft Indian,
Philadelphia built, lire oak and
cedar, i* coppered, flieathed and bolted, 3 y»*s
old, fail* remarkably well, carries 15 a 1600 bar
rels—now lying at South-(lr«et wharf, ready to
load PF,TER BLIGHT,
march 6. § 1 w
For Hamburgh,
THE SHI?
Dominick Terry,
J AGOB Dihart, Majler,
Having great part «f her cargojeo*
gagnd.—For freight apply to
JeJfc is* Robert Wain.
Pebnuary a/5 $
Nicklin £3? Griffith,
At their Store on Walnnt Street Wharf—
HAVE FOR SALE,
58 hhds. of Jamaica Rum
Madeira Wine in p'pes and hhdi.
TenerifFe do- in pipes
Old Pnrt do. in hhds.
Imperial Tea in quarters and eighths ef thefts
Sail Car.vafs, No. 1, to 8
Dimities, Ginghams, and Muflincts, in packa
ges iuitable for the Weft-India market
Nails assorted
Black quart b»ttles
Queens ware in crate*
YeJlo'V ochre' dry in calks - ; '
And at New-York, on board the
(hip Diana, from Li' erpool, expected round
as fonn as the navigation is opeu,
Fine Liverpool Salt
Ooals
Spanifti Brown 1
Venetian Red |
Purple Brown i PAINTS
Patent White f VA N 18
White Lead |
Red Lead J
Colerthar vitriol
lftr> bundles She-.thing paper
Seaming Twine
Far Sale or Chatter.
ALSO,
Brig Amazon.
N. B. The late firm of PhHip Nicklin & Co.
is now changed to
NICKLIN y GRIFFITH.
January x. eodtf
For Sale or Charter,
Jlllfe GOODHOPE
c,rr y ahout 1100 barrels, and
iHfii V totake in a cargo. For terms
apply to
Pragers & Co.
No. 151, South Secoud-ftreet.
Who have for sale—prime St. Croix Supir
and Rum, Madera, Lijbon, and TenerifFe win*.
November 7. dtf
House and Lots, in Bordentown.~
*~l 1 0 BE SOLD, a handsome two story House,
X with the Lot on which it Is ere&ed, situat
ed about the middle of the beautifal and healthy
Village of Bordentown. The house is sorry
two feet in front, and in neat order. The lot
contains one acre, and is one hundred feet on
the main flreet, and extends with the fame
breadth to back street. Also, a large Lot, son
taining nearly four acres, separated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, ard for the remainder, such credit
w II be givrt. as the purchifer may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all
and an indisputable title given.
For further particulars enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, refidin£ in Bordentown, near
the prtmifes, who vll (hew the fame, or of
PETER THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 43, Muibfrrv-ftreet.
December 1. 3»wtf
French Circulating Library.
JOSEPH E. G. M. De La GRANGE,
No. Hi Walnut-street,
TNFORMS thofa who wi(h to recur to the only
1 means of becominj perfedt in the French Lan
guage.that he has just opened his Libzarv, con
lifting of upwards of 1.500 volumes, the best cal
culated to afford either uftful inftruilion, or plea
nire. The conditions, together with a catalog®
of the Library, may be seen at every book-fcllSr's
in town.
n. b. All translations from and into the French,
Englilh and Spanilh Languages, execurec with ac
surac) and drfpatch. eoim „ n .
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Seat,
FOR I Y acres of land on the Old York Road,
within light of Genruntown and about 6ve mile*
from the City, the whole being under go«d fence
and in excellent order aspaflure ground.
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Elliott Cressoic, at his office for the
sale of KealEftates, Conveyancing, See. No. 54,
High-street.
2d mo. i6th 4 2awiw
On TucTiay, the ioth day of
April next, at 7 o'clnck in the evening, at
the City Tavern, Second Street, iu the Cily
of Philadelphia,
WILL be expofrd U» public fali, feventesn
trails or parcel* of land situated in Point
townfrup in ths county of Northumberland, and
containing in the whole fix thousand seven hun
dred and sixty-sour acre's £(id three quarters,
witji Ihe usual allowance for roads.
Terms of sale, j- j ofthe purefcafe money on
the execution of the
and 1 in fvx months, in goad notes or other
approved fecarity
CONNELLY £3* Co. A*tt.
Marc'* 9. lawin dnoa
A Great Bargain.
WILL BE SOLD,,if applied <orimmediate
ly, Twenty Thousand Dollars in Bills ol
Credit, noon intcreft at five per cert, per annum,
now lodged in the Tr*afury, snil endorsed by the
United Mates, with a promise to " pay theinte
rt'tt annually."
Enquire at the Office of THOMAS McEWEN
IS* Co. v-rch u r
Wanted to live in the Country,
About five miles from this city, a sober fiea
day Man who understands gardening and the
management of a few icres of lanrf, an 1 would
not objeifl to attend a couple of bsrles. Such
a one may meet with liberal wag:s by applyiqg
at the office of this Gazette.
N. B. Nooe need apply but those of unex
ceptionable chara&er».
March !■?. dti
A Garden to be let,
FOR a term of years, situate about a mile frogs
the Csurt-heufc, contains ahout two acres of
land, it a high (lataof cultivation. A large green
house, isere&edon the premises, about forty feet
long, with a lodging room, and feed loft atove.
A considerable quantity of kitcU-a articles, very
regularly disposed of on thefpot.
f.nquire at jl, South Second-street.
march It. - cojt
St. Croix Sugars.
»6 hoglheads bell ST. QkOlX SUGAR,
yOR SALE BY
JOHN NIXON & Co.
Feb. 9 fm^-wtf
FOR SALE,,
By WHAR I'ON LEWIS, j
No 115 South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, ") entitled to
1(1 and idproaf Brandy, j drawback.
Madeira Wine,
- ui Juniper Berries, Sic. &c.
Feb. 9. eodtf
FOR SALE,
400 barrels BEEF.
Snquire of
Ctorre Pennael, If
CiJ. Hill Wells.
march 8. eotf
ft.ed Clover Seed ®f the be^tquality.
MADEIRA IVItJR,
Old, and fit for immediate life, in pipes, half
pipes and Quarter calks.
TenerifFe Wine,
And, Window of which will be fold
on **ry reafoaable terms, by 1
John Craig,
No. U, Dock Street,
march r w&.tf
TO LET, *
And poffeffian given the i(l April next,
TheHouleNo. 258 High-street,
At present o.eupird by P. Bbtliu, Esq.
Apply to
Edward Shoemaker,
No. 127, High street.
February 24 eod 3w
Prison iVJ anufadtory.
FOR SALE,
At the Prison of the City and County of Philadel
phia,
Cut Nails of all sizes, from to zody
Flooring Brads, Spriggs, fiddle and card Tacks
Oakum and chipped Logwood
Shoemakets snd SaJlri s Thread
Also Sawed Marble, suitable for currier's tables,
tomb *nd hea 1 ttoocs, hearths, chimney pieces,
platlorms, llabs, facia, window heii<, tills, c .
All which may he had onreafonable terms,
Shoes made and Weaving done at said Prison at
a moderate price.
Orders frdm a dirtance, direfted to Daniel Tho
mas, agent for the pnii'on, will be attended to.
December 26. mth6m .
New-Tori, February, 1798.
PROPOSALS by GEORGE FORMAN,
fOK PRINTING ST SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix m»nths—entitled
PROOFS of aCONSPIR ACY against
ull P.eltgions and Governments of EU
ROPE, carried on in t£e secret meetings of Free
Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. Col
lccsled from poo l authorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
PofeJJtr of Natural Phil,fifty, and Secretary U tie
Rt>yal Society of Jid'ittbureh.
Nam tua res agitur paries cum pt oximus ardet.
0" THIS work will be put to prefsas soon as
400 lubfcribers are obtained,andoo money requir
ed until the work is completed—lt (hall be print
ed with an elegant new type, and on paper of fa
perior quality, which will comprise about 400
pages neat handfomely bovnd and lettered
—tbe price will be one dollar and fifty cents.
Those who procure il/übfcribers, and become
accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis— and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
*•* T"® above work comes from the pen of J.
Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in hiirh
efhmation in the literary world—the fails therein
recorded are well substantiate:', and thereafoninc
and arguments thence deduced, while they disco
ver the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are Calculated to amul'e as well as to in
u A fccne of villainy is developed by the
author fuiticient to appal the flouted heart The
danger to be apprehended from fceret fscietits is
clearty pointed out ; the degeneracy of human na
ture awfully illustrated, and the hazard of every
deviation irem the flraight path of religion and
of virtue, ineonteflibly proved both to the politi
cian and the chriftiau by ilubboto and iocontro
vertable fa&s.
tit Subscriptions taken in l v O. Forman, No. 46
IVuUam.firect, VfyU. tbe Pofl-ttfic., and by th-refp-t.
>/•/ Mf«ller, m Nliit-l'wt at:*
February
[Volume XIII.
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOk S4LE,
Hp WAT well kn<jwn Eftatr, called SHREWS
_L BURY FARM, formerly, the reficK'UCe of
General John (iadwaladja, firijate on Sa!Eili.» Hi
rer, in Kent count*, Ma.fy!v»d—co.lC.:i ir:g q.
bout 1900 acres of prints I.AND, upwards of joo
•f which are in woods. Thf BiiiMiags ate ali ex
cellent, and copSft c.f a, hasdli'mc dwelling Houl#,
two large B.am» with Co»! hones, Stables for fifty
a fpaciove treajii.jj 3o».- under cover, a
granary., two Ovetfeer's houfcj, cv\ Q ran
ges of two story buddies for Negroes (one %f
them new and of hrick), Corn houses, a Smo.'tk
house , Ac. &c.—The whole Estate feeing nearly
furrouoded by water, U require* but 'ittle fencing,
and has a good Shad and Herring k is
conveniently'tit jated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a Ihort fail from Baltimore. There
is a large peach, and two hrgu Apple Orchards on
the pi«mi(«s; also, a variety of tfcellftt fruits of
different kinds. The foil is mofily a rich
The whole wIR b# fcild together, or divided into
fustier farms (for which rhj.' holdings are conven
iently situated) as way suit the purchaf,r. The
Stuck on said Farin, confiftiuj ot Horles, CattW,
' Sheep, &c. will alio bedifpofsdof. For further
particu.ars Apply to Geok<je Hastings, on the.
preniifes, or tothe fuhferiher, in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jus-
February 14. 2aw6»v
'w OTICE j "" 1 '
IS hereby given, that the Subfci iber, an insol
vent debtor, confined in the common goal of
the County of Cape May in the tt-te of New-
Jerfcy, hath prefcQted his petition to the Judgee
of the Inferipr Coyrt of Cotnmon Fleas, 111 an 4
| -for the laid county, pra>ing that they would
attend to hear what can be alledged for or a.-
1 gamll his liberation, puritan: to an ail of the
Legislature of this luate, entitled "an a$ for
the relief of insolvent debtors," pafltd the 46th
day of January 1798 —And the the said court
did appoint Monday the a6th day of Marcfe
next for the purpose aforefaid ; to meet at the
Court Hcufe in the Midttte at eleven
o'clock, in the forenoon of the said day, »f which
his creditors are requeftsd to take notice.
CHARLES ALLEN.
Cape May, Feb. 8, 1798.
Feb. 14—tawrw
NOTICE.
WHEREAS a Certificate to Hannah Shel
ly, of Oxtfd Cottage, in the County of
Surrey, in Great-Britain, Spinller, or her afiigni,
for two thousand five hundred and sixty-two dol
lars twenty-three cents, in the deferred stock of
the Umited States, was loft in the (hip Peggy,
Capt. Hyer, bound from Philadelphia to London
ia the year 1796. The lutfcril>er, the said Han,
nah Shelly, intends to apply to the Treasury of
the United States, for a renewal of the said Cer
tificate.
HANNAH SHELLY.
Fab i isw6w.
Bolton Glass Manufa&oiy,
THE citiicns of the United States we hereby
informed, that the manufacture of Window
Glass is now commenced at the Glass House ill
Boston.
It is neodkfs to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of thcßoiltn Glass, as it isfo well know*
throughout the United States to be in every reft
P<A Superior to any rv< r imported front
Europe.
It will be d»t to any file comraenfy used ; and
may be conttantly had by applying to Chalet F,
Kupfer, at the GlaL House.
Orders from the distant States fobe addrtffed la
Mr. Samuel Gere, Court-draft, Boston.
C 5" 'Two or thre» good Glass makers are want
ed at the above works ; such as can produce r«-
commendatioas for good behavior, may be sure of
employ, by application to Mr. George L. L'rndt, st
the works. Men without families will be pre
ferred. However unacquainted with the methed
of making Crown Window Glass, they will meet
»ith tha fame encouragement.
Bofl.cn, January 16 j_» 2 sv6«
At a Meeting of the President
and Managers of the Delaware aad Schuylkili
Ca'Tial Company, February 17th, 1798,
Revived, Tl-.Et ten dollarsou each ihare ofStock
be railed for ; and that the Treasurer
give public notice thereof agreeable
to law.
ExtraS from the Minutes.
GEORGE WQRR.ALL, S.eretary.
AGREEABLE to a resolution of th« Prcfident
and Managers of the Delaware and Schuylkill Carnal
Company, the Stockholders arc hereby required to
make a payment of ten dollars on each of their
refpe&ivc ihares.on or before the ift of April nuxt.
t0 WM. OOVETT, Treasurer.
February aB. ajwtA
City Commissioner's Office,
January nth, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE ClTlZrtff.
r following arrangement is made by the
J- said coramiffioners, for cleansing the
ftrects, &c. b
Diftrifl No. r.—From the north fide of Vine
to the south fide of Mulberry flreet; cq
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholss Hick*.
1 From the south fide of Mulbrry ilreet, to
the south fide «f Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut llrect t«
the north fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joleph Claypoo.'e.
4- From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar firm, to be uHdtr the fu
perintendance of Hugh Roberts.
§s* When pumps are out of order south of
Hi fh-ftreet, plcafe apply to Thomas Dixey, at the
corner of South and Fifth-ftreets, or Godfrey Gcb
ler, it.Fourth, wear Chrfnut-ftreet j and north
High-llrect, to l/iney and Oehaven, in Saffafuu.
street, bstween Sixth and Seventh-flreets.
James C. Samuel VV7Fiiher
AT THEIR STORE, 9
Ne.jxj, cbrSer of Arch and Frentftreet.
H/ire FOR SALE,
Cotton and worded Hnfiery in trunks,a(Torc<l"
A lew bales red, white, and yellow Flaonei
Ditto fptty romall Handkerchiefs
Ditto Pullicat silk ditto
Ditto Pondicherry and Mackafs ditto
Ditfu Gurrahs
black Taffetics
4000 pieces Nankeens, and
Few elicits best Hyson Tea
XSOO boxes'beft London Wlniow GlnfiL
from Bby6,to 19 by 14—and i S hhds. Glais
' s '