O* JUST RECEIVED,
AM fOR SALE, \T
W. Young's Book-ftofe^
Comer of Chrfnot and Second ftrc«ts,
( Prm 50 Cents)
Caifes qui fe font oppofecs arax
froi;rci du commerce, entre LA FRANCEeI Us
V. • ATS-UNI3 de V
Avee 1m Moyenn de l'acc6l£rer ;
Et la comparaifon de la Dette Nationale
de I'Angleterre, de la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
tu (is Lettrei, addrefftes a MoiiCeurlc Mar
quis de la FayITTI* Traduit fur le M«-
nulcrit Anglai* du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Ms tnbre de la Legislature dc la Ripubliqnc
du MaiTathufleS.
Le Cornm.rc* eft la portion U plu- imporunte des
(Richefles Natioaales.
—— LeTrid ent de Ncptnne, tft le sceptre du M onde.
tIHIII I.
Or caufcs that have been opposed to the
of COMMERCE botween
FRANCWani 0* UNITF.D STATU J AMERICA.
With the meant of accelerating it;
And a companion of the National Debts
of England, Frenee, and Amarica.
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
Bt LA FAYITTI.
Translated (into French from the original Eng
kifh MaimfcriVt of Col. Swam, formcfly aMem
ttr of the Legislature of Maflachufetts.
Commerce i« the most ipiportaat portion of the
Wealth of Nation#.
•The indent of Neptune i»the Sceptre of
the world. ' Laniaaa.
AT a junfkire when the question of
a Commercial Truly ■mill' France may soon
become an thjtft of discussion, arworkof this kind
becomes extremely uiefut to those eitixens of the
United States, who may be defiroos to enablethem
fclves to view this fubje<9, under its various af
pedls ; and they will have the fatisfa&ion to be
forntfhed with the necessary data, to judge of the
■iefulnefsof this tranfa&ion.
I hi* work is principally distinguished by the
cichncfrof the observations, the pcrfpisuity of th#
iJcas, and the modesty of the theory which it
contains. At Vars, a man of wit obfsrved, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufelul prodnee. It is addref
fed to the unfortunate La FayxttC, in letters,
which fugitive so n, tho author who could only
devote a few works to this occupation, was obliged
Co adopt. Althonjh cirtumtlanc-is ate in many
refpeds different at die present day, from what
ihtjt were in the year 1790, when these letters
were"written, yet it may be justly fcid.that so ma
nj *bf«lute and permanent data still remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
Ids on that account j on the contrary, as many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the rt
fult of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfacliotis, between free
nations, every thing may be expefled from the ef
fortsof truth acdjuftice.
LETTER I.
General view of the obstacles,"created in France,
to pi event the extension of commerce, with the
Unired Stat, s—Obfervations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, uponfonte French manu
fa&uics (a precious fragment this). Examination
and icfutation of the prejudices exifling in France,
agaiult the quality of certain prodnitions of the
United States, and against the advantages of their
importation— Demonflratjon of the bad policy of
laying duties on their importation, principally on
provifioiis in general, and on fait proviiions, and
6lh in pa ticular—Confidcrationi en the regulations
of the French cufiom-houfes.
LtrrEß n.
ObfWclcs to the cxtenGon of trade with France,
proceeding from circumstances and individuals m
the United States —Proofs tha: these obstacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and the wifdomof govern
ment HilWy of the influence of the American
papfr money—lmportaiit jrinciplfts and abftraS
eonfideiations on money and circulation—Causes
of the (lagnaion of American trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French y,oods, im
ported into America, and extraordinary conduct
of the French merchants—Effefls of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic withes on this fubje.it—
Observations on money, weights and meafares.
LETTER 111.
Effayin the form <fa tailed, to appraifc the im
poitations into the United Mates/wm Fnnce and hng.
land anted. The author examines at each article,
wtiethei it can be better turnifbed from France or
England—lt it principally on this fabjefl (which
would have alVonilhrd 1 meie theoriftj that the author
appears tn ev'moe great commercial experience. These
kin 1 ot tMeau*, uu'utkily aa difficult to obtain as
they aie much to be defiled, are the only lure guides
the flatcfroin can take for th policy of treaties, de
prived of which he is continOslly deceiving or decei
ved. We#»nr.oitoo much admire the apparent ex«
«cfnefs of coloi«l Swan's cslcuUtionj 1 ana although
the propbifies of Lord Shcfield b»ve already been
con>radi£lea bv experience, and by several able pent,
yrt it is curious to lee the author of the prelent wcrk,
difpuie with bim the only grout d on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the lequi'ed condition, will be better able
than Great Britain to lupply us with several articles,
which the Engliftiauihoi allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's patriality tjfett cm (if he
has an>) does not appear to have at any time created
a partiality as yidprint. The result of this calculation
is that in 1:09, that is to lay, ata period when arts
and manufactures did »ot present in France the vast
Okkis and probabi i y of extension which they now
pod .t. that even in 1789, it was presumable, th«t
France would not only have the means 10 supply one
Half of any given quantity of tbe produflions of Frame
end r upland united, butalfoto enter into competition
with Great Britain Cor the remainder, in proportion
to the wildom of bcr government, and tlte industry
Of her inhabitants
LETTER IV.
Calculation of the exportation of the United States,
and particular examination of their fuitablenelt to
France ; this is oae reason why, notwithftandtng the
excelh nt work nf Mr. 'lench Coxe, Mr. Swan's la
iltav is by >0 means fupeifluous . the principle of the
advantages which would result to France from the
importation r f provisions and raw materials, is every
where applied ; »nd it is upon this argument, that
the author .-ftabliihes his demands to the French go
vernmeni, for the limited admission of the produc
»ionaol his country into France
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt o* the United States at that
time—Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
effcftl of national debt, on circulation, &c. as more
amply detailed in his National Arithmetic printed at
Bolfon in the-year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
ftrength.nin Kranee, the nuKi c and private credit
of the United Stafcs—the happy conditio^ of Ameri.
ca, and the miferie, arifingfrom tf>e public debt in
Europe, arecont'afted in the ableil manner, and un
der the most ttriking itla.ianj, by very cuiioot cal
culaiiom—Obfervations on the wisdom and economy
which preside over the public expenses in Maflachu
fctts. In this plsce ihe (Striotifm of the author ap
pears, with all the elevation whichajuft national
prtde lnlpirea. Theancient government, of Europe,
lays he, will learn fiom us the art of economy in
recompensing thefeivices which the country receives:
Anmgjl ui n Kill i'/«". dut men are chojtx fir placet,
end not placesJer men. This leucr conclude with a
general view of the publie properly, depobtod in tbe
bands of the govcr ment of the Uuitcd States.
UTTER VI.
General exsmination of the defefis of the enmmer.
cisl policy of France with refpefl to the United Slates ;
many ot these observations have produced tbe effefts
for which they were" intended, others fliU remain,
pointing out the refoimt to be made in future, at •
(uud oldti auiks the fticsls and locks. Tbe xuthcr
•oncludet hia 'work, by fixing aMen ion on bis
country, and -be great men wbo have rendered it il- .
luftrious: and * e take » plealure in quoting what he
fays of the otefent chief ot Wr government. To
prsife a man Wlien he cercifes a dillingutfhed em
t ployment. is common, aod may be taken for flattery (
[ but whilst he laan private hfs, it ii the homage ot
an " my " £|p,ge S ,«oftbework, ,
• Les des Ei.ts-ums, futvant dans leur
choix le bsen ftsblic, it excites par on principe de
reconnoiHsbCe, choififent M. John Adam, pour vice
prefident du aouve.u emigre*. Ses efforts, pour pre
ierver U peuple des inu.gues formees par le gouv
fruement Anglais contre fa liberie, le rend.reot t.es
fofpeff a ceux q>ii etoient en pouvotr Le peuple,
eonvaincu de son ivritc, le ehoif,t P~" un de . feS
reprelentans dans le premier congres. De ce nombr.
etoit aul2a M. tunuel Adams, patriote auffi intrepide,
qa'infitigable La revolution Atoericaine doit beau
coup a la perleveranee de fes travaux, Sc a festaleni
diftinges. Ceux que M. John Adams a developpes
dins le oaite de paix, qui s'etl fait a Paris en 1703,
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniftre auflt habile que grand
politique, ti dans foo ouvrage sue la defenfe ce la
ennftitution Americaine, il a mnntae toutes lescan
noiffances qui. iorme -t les vr. . junfeonfultes & les
hommesde loi; connoiffances necetlsires, pourrem
phr honorablement Iqs fonfhona de president du fenst
des Etats-unis. , _ _ _______
mrti c e.
A Manufaßtry of ycHvw and itlft ware.
Such ai BCTff was in thii Country bdofCj has |'eco
been Utelv ercAcd at TiTolii Red Landing,
on (he taft Bank of Hydfaa't River, ila:e of New.
Yofk, where any article of various (oru ahd fr.apcs
may be executed, as well as earihein stoves upon a
oew conftruftion, that Caves three fourths of the fuel
commonly used in calk iron stoves or open chy ranies;
they are befidei very wbplcfome and ornamental, by
• PF, "°"° J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fltillful hand to attend to the baking and
glaaing part of »he said ware. Generous appoint,
mcnts will be given. Apply as above, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South jib Street.
Feb. ig.
NOTICE.
ALL perfonj who have any demands agaitift
th« estate of Willam Fuewtoou, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are reqoeftcd to exhibit thiir accounts,
properly attested ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, tn
GEO.nOBSON, ? A .{m\niJ)r r
No. I], So. Tliird-ftreet. J
January 4S , ~ dtf
For sale or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lei of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth streets, fronting the State-
Hi-use square. This lot ts fifty-one feet front
on Walnut street, and nne hundred and thirteen
feet and an half on Fifth street 5 there sre at
present two small two story brick houses, aod a
number of small tenements thereon.
Also, for Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient ftorcs, wharf, Ac. situate on
Water street, between Mulberry anl Saflafris
Streets, containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing that breadth eall
ward ninety-five feet, »hen widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houfei
havi the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uation for a a merchant, lour faiflor, or others
who may have occasion for storage of goods.
Thts property will be fold on very reasonable
terms for rash. For further information apply
to the printer.
Jii'v it. mVwtf
Ran away from the Subscriber,
On the »<tß January t»B,
A Black Woman, named Zelimt.
SHE is of a middling sized ftatnrc, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the sac
carried off a bundle of Knen with her. Whoever
takes her tip and brings her to the fwbfcriber, at
No. Arch-f\reet, corner of Fourth-ftreit,
(hall receive two Dollars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbors said Girl after this no
tioe, (hall be profeeutedtt the severity of the law.
February la. 13'
Ncu>-York, January H, 1798}
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publifliing by Subscription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madamb Roland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS. ,
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London «di
tionsin a few months,) will be comprifcd in 1
vols, o&ave, of 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subfcrihers, neatly bound
and lettered, at r dollar and 50 cent* per vol
ume—one third-os the-Subfcription money to be
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work is compleat.
To Printers, Bookfellerv and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
be made
■£r Subscriptions arc taken at the Reading-
Room, Ne. 149, Water street—the Printing-
Offiee, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Rookftores in New-York- Also, by William
Young, corner, f Second and Chtfnut ftraet, and
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States,
Philadelphia.
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put tn press, and
com pleated with the utmost dispatch.
Feb. ao. eodam
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING &T SUBSCRIPTION,
A NEW AND INTERESTING WORT, ENTITLE*,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and mis
demeanors, by which public and private propor
ty, are, at present, injured and endangered :
And fuggefling remedies for their prevention.
« A MAGISTRATE,
A (Sing for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
aud Eflex ; for the city and liberty of Weftmin
fler ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Loo
dsfl. fit; . * w/v
CONDITIONS.'
TWs work will be printed in a large oSavo, on
an eicellent F.ngiiih paper—lt will be delivered to
■ fubferihers, bound in boards, at the moderate price
of- One Dollar and a half; although the lafl London
• edition, o» inferior, paper and meanly hound, is
' now fold at *wo dollars and a half. To hon-fub
fcrfber, the price will be raised.
' WJutever encouragement may be given by fuh
feriptiou, it will be committed to *he prafs without
delay ; and, barring accidents, will be roady for
publication early m April.
gr Subscriptions will be thankfully received at
Benjamin Bavies's's boci-floie, No 68, High
ly, et. and by moU of the other booksellers in the
city ; by George Kill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Oruamonti, m New-York. |
January 31. " MwtA
IV' v
' proposals,
Insurance Company of North America.
For Shsci.nci F'M. on Dwcl mg-
Houfcs Ware-Honfes, and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) diftantfrom
Philadelphia, in the United States.
I. Common tafurince.', on hazards of the firft
class, will be undertake* at a premium of about
half per cent, per aneum For extra hazardous
rifques a larger p-cn-itm will be required, which
will vary according to circumstances, seldom ex
ceeding oar per ccut. pe- annum ; but in Come ifl
ftances. where the property insured i» not only in
itfclf extra hazardous, but rendered still more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
orcupations, the premium demanded will be raikJ
aceordir-.gtoeircumftar.ee*.
Houses Jltrt Ware-Houses, the walls and partf
tien. of W*.ich ife Wholly of Hone or brick, w«U
cunftruAsl, so wu'eo guarded a» *<li as may be
again# firefirnm (within, and tree from extra ha
zardous building* Sod ojecupations in their neig -
b»rhood 4 wj!l be deemed hazardous of the nrlt
claf». and may be injured ta tbeirfull value.
Also (Jopds and Merchanliie, not o ; an extra
hazardqtJ kind, in calks, bales, or package*, tlc
pofi'cd in fach buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeJing 4000 dollars ; bat if «n»re than this sum
is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi -
tional premium will be ret ired, in proportion to
eircuraftarces.
11. Insurance. will also be made on buildings and
good 3 extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tha risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or classes, so as to describe
each with the necessary accuracy. Each caf» mud
therefore be decided upon according to the circutn
ftaaccs attending it ; and these circumstances wili,
in general, appear from the description accompa
uying theapplieatiort.
Buildings partly conflruiSed of brick or stone,
are preferable, to thofc wholly wooden. And in
both cafe*, the ftila of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And with refpeS tagood*,
their" tend.ncy, whether from their nature, or
from the njanner in which they are exposed, either
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such state to receive damage by
wet, or by sudden andhally removal, or to be Co
len in time of confufipp and harry, are all cir
cumstance* of weight ! jjnd the premiums must be
proportioned according^.
111. The fallowing eonditiont are to be under
ftcod by the parties.
ift. The Infcraace is not binding till the ftinu
lated premium be paid j bat it (hall be deemed ef
fe&ual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
2d. Insurance* may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
ptnfe« than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumstances continuing the fame
as they were nnderftood by the Infurrrs at the time
the former insurance wa»
of the premium is eflential to such renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed sn the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjt& of insur
ance may neverthslefs be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame
property ; it mod be made known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
plication will be void.
4th Good* held in trull, or on conGgnment,
may be insured a* such in a feaarate policy ; but
they are not to be considered as insured otherwise.
sth. This company will net be liable or accoun
uhlcfor W=... j -n .. 11, —
"Hgn rnvafiop, or by any military or ufarped force,
•r by reason of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept in the building, or amongtt the pro
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, JJank and other pro
missory Notes, are not included in any insurance;
nor are paimings, medals, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirror* exceeding the valae of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured un
left particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
7th. No insurance will be made for a ftiorter
term than one year, mr for a longer term than fe
vea years. P.erfons choofiog to infara for seven
years (hall be allowed orif year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years premium (hall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. Lode* fuftaincd by fire on property insured,
fliall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A description of the property to be infarod will
be expt&ed with each application, to be made by
a matter carpenter and signed by him, as well as
by the owner of the building or applicant for in
surance, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify hi* knowledge of the
parties and their.credibility.
With refpeft to Houjiertmd other Buildings,
ift. The lite and pwfifi n ; delcrihing the.
street or road Qn or near which the building
Hand* i its contiguity to water", and other cir
cumstance* relative to the extinguishment of fire
in cafe of accident j and particularly whether
any and what fire cocnpaqie* are established, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbour hood.
»d. '1 he materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, Done or wood, and what part of
each, a* well as to the out fide wall* as infideor
partition wall*, and their refpeilive height and
thicknef*; the style of the roof and of what
materials ; how lecured by battlements or par
ty wall* 2 what kind of access to the top of the
house and to the chimnie. 1 whether any and
what ele&ric rod* ; the number and kind of
fire place* ; and the kind of depoGt for alhes.
3d. The dimensions of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is fiuiQied so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the age and condition of the building,
and how Occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pose i also an eftireate of the value of the houle
or building independent of the ground.
4th, The situation with relpedl to other build
ings or back buildings,, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how baHt, of what material*, and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
ling* for private families or Gthcrwifc : whe
ther any and what trade br manufaftory j* car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous article* used, or usually depo
sited in the house, or within the distance afore
faid, and of what kind.
in House*, Warehouses, «tc.
I. A peneral description of the building in
which they are kept will be expedled, similar in
all refpefls, as to the danger from fire, with that
required for Insurance on the building* them
felve*.
a. A description of the kiud. and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether difplaycd in whole
pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a general
estimate of the v»!i»e of each kicd proposed to
be insured ; but in the lift particular minute
ness of description is not expected.
, Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
in whatever build.ngthey may be placed, via.
pitch, tar, turpentine, rolin, wax, - Ullow, ° l1 '
inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp, flax, cotton,
drv good* of an inflammable k<nd
GWs, china ware or porcelain, efpecial.y un
packed ; Looking glasses, jewelery.; and i .ll o
ther articles mor« than commonly inflammable, ,
or rrore than commonly liable to injury by fyd- ,
den removal or by mvifluret, or particslzrly ,
obnoxious ts theft on an alarm of nr«. ■
Letter, polt paid, diredl«d to the Secretary of (
the Board of Directors, will be duly attended ,
to. An order Tor Insurance; accompanied by the t
means of paying the premium, will be 'mtne
diately sxecuted on the premium being paid. Jr <
the application contain an enquiry ouly, it will <
be answered. • *
Bvord«v pfrhe Board, .
EBENKZRK HAZARD, Sec rj.
Office of the Insurance Company «/NortV >
America ; Phtlai. Feb. I, I 79 8 " 5
Feb. 14-
'l'o be Sold, t
ABUICK HOUSE, together with the Lot i t
thereto belonging, ; n the city of Burling
ton, New-Jersey. The house has three room* I
below, and three chambers itt the upper fiory.
The kitchen adjoining is a frame buil ing. The
Lot has a front of yi feet on Pearl-street, and
the fame front on the river Delaware. The
Jength of the Lot is about aso feet—The house
commands a very pleasant profped of the river,
and of the Borough of Bristol, m the Pennsyl
vania (bore. Immediate pofie(fi«n may be had. J
For further particulars, inquire of Mr. Job*
Sims, next door below the City Tavern in Phi- 1
ladtlphia, o» the fubferiberin Birlington.
THOMSON NEALE. ~
Burlington, march t- *eodtw 1
Valuable Property for Sale. J
- j
FO R SALE,
THAT well known Ellate, called SHREWS
BURY FARM, formerly the residence of .
General John Sadwalader, firujte 0n Saffafras Rj. 1,
ver, in Kent caanty, Maryland—containing a- J
bout 1900 acres of prime LAND, upward* of joo }
«f which are iri wood.. The Buildings ttre A n e ?"
callent, and osnfift of ahandfome Dwelling House, ;
two large Banis with Cow houses, Stable, for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Overfeer'* houses, two ran
ges of two fto'.y buildings for Negroe* (one of
them new aildof brick), Corn houses, a Smoak ,
house , &c. ic The whole Estate being nearly <
furrounJed by vater, it require* but 'ittle fencing, ,
and has a good Shad and Herringfilbi:ry. It is j
conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia arid j
Baltimore mark 4», with two landings on a navi
gable river but athort failfrom Baltimore. There
is a large Peach, ind two large Apple Orchard* on
thepiemifss; alfi, a,variety of excellent fruits of 1
different kinds. The foil i* mostly a rich loom.—
The whole will bis. ld together, or divided into
f aller farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) a* 3iay suit the purchaser. The
Stock on said Farm consisting of Horses, Cattle,
Sheep, &c. will also be difpofsd of.——For further
particular* apply t) George Hastings, on the
prexnifes, or to the Ijbfciber. in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, juk.
February 14. »aw6w
House and Lots, in Bordentown.
HPO BE SOLD, a handsome two'ftory House,
X with the Lot on which it i. erected, situat
ed about the middle of the beautii' ' jr""" f
Village of Bordentown.
two feet in front, and m neat order. The lot
contain, one acre, and " one hundred feeC on
the main street, and extend, with the fame
taining nearly four acre*, frparated from the
former by back street. One third only of the
purcha r e money will be required upon execut
ing a deed, and for the remainder, such credit
w 11 be given a* the purchifer may chufe. This
property will be fold free of all incumbrances,
and an indisputable title given.
For further particular, enquire either of Dr.
William Burnes, reiding in Bordentown, near
the premifet, who fill (hew the fame, or of
PITER THOMSON,
Conveyance,-, No. 43> Mulbexry-ftreet.
December a. 3awtf
Just Published,
And to be had at tie Book-stores of MelTr*. D#»-
.on, Campbell, Younc and Oauaofi,
ii Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
On the Caule. ant Cure of Remitting or Bilious
Fever..
la which it annexed t
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and praAice of
different author*: and an-APPENDIX, exhib
iting intereOiig faAs and refleftions relative to
the Synoebut liiroides, or Yellow Fever, which
hut. occasioned so much dillrefs and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of the Hnired-Staws of America.
■v WILLIAM CURRIE.
Felow of the Philadelphia College of rbyCci»»«,
and Member of the American PhUeiophie.il So
ciity. Feb. I—*3«J§
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT eonfifts of 910 acres, aim oft all of which i.
a fiat rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
Earl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which are bounded on the
East by the river Pafaiek.
Th-re are on it a number of build Rgs, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
it a vary convenient one. and,a fmalleipence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confißs of 1500 finebesring engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other'pirt* offaid
traS near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
variety of other fruits, particularly Cberrie. of the
best and not di.licious kinds,
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotic, and
Forest Trees, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 mile*
from the towns of Newark and ElUabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and It from Springfield —It
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in calh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut treet.
February 1 eodtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE ~
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with muoh pleaf
ureand refpefl, returns her Gncere ac
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he ha* received during four years residence in
Philadelphia; and *ffures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
school, flie ha. made a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
fcholart.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
education i. particularly attended by Mrt.
Grootnbridge and mailer, excelling in fteir
refperftive profeffion..
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Street..
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
TJie fitaation i. perfeAly healthy: and made
more agreeable by aa extensive garden and lot
|of ground adjoining'the house.
THIS DAY IS OPTiVED,
And for file by WILLIAM Y<;'JNG, Ne. j»
corner ef Second and Chefnu'-ilrcets, '
In one Urge volume, S vo.
(Prict ef thi cummin paper, neatly louni, 1 Julian ja
tntl ; fiat ditto, u hoar A, 3 aoOuti J
AMERICAN'GAZETTEER,
EXHIBITING, in alphabetical order, a much
more full and accurate Account, than hai
been given, of the State,, Provinces, Countiea,
Cities, Towns, Villager, Rivera, Bays, Harbours,
Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Forts, Indian
Tribes, and New Discoveries, on the AMERICAN
CONTINENT, also of the W*»t-Ihdia Islands,
and other islands appendant to the Continent, and
thole newly difcovercd in the Pacific Ocean : De
ferring the Extent, Boundaries, Population, Gov
ernment, Pfodu&iens, Commerce,
Curiofitiea, See. of the leveral Countri-.s, and of
their important Civil DiviSom— and the Lenei
tede and Latitude, the Bearings and Distances,
from noted Places, of the «itiet, Town*, and Vil
lages with a particular Defwiption of Tic 6«r
gia IVrjiem Territory. The whole conpriling up
wards of Seven Thouland diftinft Articles.
CoUcAed and compiled from the befi. Authori
se, and arranged with great care, by, and under
the direction of
JEDIBIAH MORSE, ». ».
Author of the American UaiverfatGeography—;
Fellow of the American Academy of Aru&n4.
Sciences—and Member nf the MalTacliufctti His
torical Society.
[niluilrated with seven new and neat Map*.]
(PubliJbtJ attar Jing f, ail of Coagr.fi.J
Also, FOK SALE, at alovt,
Mr. Morse's Universal Geography,
In two large 8 vo. volumes, price 4 dol*. 50 <l3.
Ditto, abridged, at x dollar.
February *6. eo4t
■ *#
New-Tort, February, 1798.
PROPOSALS at GEORGE FO KMA W,
ro* printing *r iusst*j»noN,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been w
tant only fix menths— entitled
TJROOFSof a CONSPIRACY against
JL all the Religions an-1 Governments of EU
ROPE, carried on in the fe<jet meetings of Free
Mafoni, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. Bel
' ROBISON, a. *.
PrtftJJv <f Natural Pbiltfophy, aaJ Surttory If fit
Royal Sot'tHy of £Jiniur^l>.
Nam tun rm agitar parut turn prtximui aria.
{J* THIS work will be pat to pfefsas soon aa
400 fubferiber* are obtained, and no money requit
ed until the work is completed.—lt (hall be print
ed with an 1 legant new type, and on paper of fn
perior quality, which will comprise about 40*
pages neat o&aYo, han'fomely bound and lettered
—the price will be one dollar amd fifty cent*.
Taofe who procure n fttblcribers, and become
accountable, (h»U have a 13th gratis—and the u.-
fual allowance to hookfellert.
Tae above work comes from the pen of I.
Rohifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
eftimatioa -n the literary world—the fa&s therein
recorded are well fulftautiate.', an J the reafonmg
and argumen s thence deduced, while they disco
ver the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amufc a* well a* to in*
ftrudt. ' A scene of villainy it developed by the
author fufficient to appal the stoutest heart.—The
danger to be apprehended from secret focier'** **
clearly pointed out ;
ture awfulb» —T-t*Od the hazard of every
from the straight path of religion and
of virtue, inconteftibly proved both to the politi
cian and the christian by ftuhborn and innontro
vsrtable fads.
t-t-t SSui/iriptitai tain h h O. Forman, No. 4<,
tWillmm-fiiKt, Itffefitt titPtfi-OfUt, andly tte rtfptt.
ivt boolfulltrt M New-York ant PbiUddphia.
February 38. _____
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subfiriber, propoGng to contra® hit baft
neft, offers this Eftaie for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones; also a good Forge, ail
in perfed repair,as are all the Water Works connect
ed with thefc various branches. The Air Furnace*
were lately built tor the purpofc of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abou> two tfeoufand acne
of Land, one half of which is under wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the befl Hay anA
Paflure. The Cannon lately mannlatlered thrre,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which ia
luperior to any in this country, and probably, eqeal
to any in the world ; for not one of frxty-ntne fun*
lately made, although some of rhe »4 were bored
into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The situ*
ation is very eligiblt, particularly for tbi> branch of
manufaSure, and a place of arms lying in the Sate
of Connecticut, and only 30 miles from several land*
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan*
tage that can retult from a plenty of water ifiuing
from a large natural pood, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purposes The purchaser can be accommodat
ed with all theftock and utensils, and have pofleffion
on or betore the firil of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for goinginto Blalt im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
"» Kood order, with fomecoal, Ore, Ac. Ac.
terms, a t*t*f7
M. . fuiepb i
phia; David Brooks, E(q. one of the Reprefentauvea
in Corgrefs for this State ; Mr, ©.ivid Waterman, eq
theprenvifes, or totbeiprepiietorin New-York,
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. , .^awtf
Wanted\ to Hire y
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generou*
rent will be given; te be taken lor a year, or ot>
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
oa. 17. ■ «*f
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, abeut 400 weight, ia
good condition, and would answer the pur pelfe of
a country Printer as well at new.
Enquire of the Printer.
City Commiflioner's Office,
January UM, 1798.
FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE C!TIZIVS>
THE following arrangement it made by tbe
said commiffionert, for cleaning the
. ftrtets, Ac.
Diflridl No. I.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry street; te
be under the fuperinttnd#nce of Nicholas Hickt.
a from the fquth fide of Mutbrry street, to
• the foiith fide of Ckefnut ftrreet, to be under the
■ fupcrintendance of William Moulder.
t j. From the south fide of Chefnnt street to
1 the nenh fide ef Spruce street, to be under tht
> fuperintendance of Jol'eph ClaypooJe.
r 4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
r south fide of Cedar street. to be under the fu»
r perintmdancr of Hugh Roberts. rowfim
E Jujl Published,
* And to be had of MelTrt. Dobfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Beokfcilers in t*ie
city,price one dollar, twinty-fivecents,in boards.
New Views of the Origin of ths
e Tribes and Nations of America.
t By BENJAMIN 9MJTH BARTON, m. a.
Jaiic »o.