JUST RECEIVER
and on SALE, AT
\V. Young's.Book-store,
C'-rj.cr of Cii snot aud Second flre«ts,
( Frio* 50 Ccjtti J
Cawfes qui fe font oppofces aux
l*ro s res du commrrcc, encre LA FRANCEet les
F.l'A I s-USIi de L'AMERIQI'E.
Avee le« Moyens de l'accelarer ;
Et la ccmparaifon de la Dette Nationale
de l'Angleterrc, de la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettres, addressee* a Monfieurlc Mar
quis ot la Fayette. Traduitfur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SW AN, ancien
Membre de 1b de la Republique
du MaiTacilulTct.
Le Commnrc# eft la portion la plus impottante des
(Richefles Nationales.
LaMISRK.
Or causes that have been eppofed to the
VROGRESS of I OMMERCE botween
FRANCE and the UNITED STATES of AMERICA,
With the means of accelerating it;
And a somparifon of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, direfted to the Marquis
BE LA FATITTI.
Tranßated (into French fr»m the original E«g
k(h Maaufcrint of Col. Swam, formtrly a Mem
ber »f the Legislature of MaffachuCetts.
Conwnerce i> the molt important portion of the
Wealth of Nations.
—rhe *id«nt of Neptune is the Sceptre of
the world. L*ssi«a*.
AT a junfture when the question of
a Commercial Treaty witl Fraace maj soon
become an ohjeA of difcuiUon, a work oi this kind
becomes extremely ulelul to those aitizens »f the
United States, who may be defirons to enable thenv
feWes to view this fubjefi, under its various at
petfls ; and they will have the fatisfadion to he
furmfhed with the neceJTary data, to judge of the
ufclulcefs «f this tranfaAioo.
Ihis work is principally diftinguilhed by the
nehnefs of the otferva' ions, the ptrfpieuity of the
aiyl the modesty of the theory which it
contains. >t Pars, a man of wit observed, that
this work was like a rich farmer'ebarn, heaped up
to the very roof with ufeiul produce. It is addrcf
fed to the unfortunate La FaraTTt, in letters,
which fugitive fo r m, the author who could only
devote a few wotka to this occupation, was ..bliged
to adopt. Although •ircumftancis are in many
refpcAs different at the present day, from what
they were in' the year 1790, when these letters
were written, yet it may be justly said, that so ma
ny '.ibfolute and permanent data ftiU remain, that
the jiUiciom reader will not appreciate the work
left on that account; on the contrary, M many of
the alterations, which have been made, are the re
sult of the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince him that in all tranfa&ions, between free
nations, every thing may be eapeSed from the ef
forts of truth and juftiaf.
LETTER. I.
General viaw of the obftades,'created in France,
to pi event the axtenCon el commerce, with the
United Stats—Observations made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, upon some French manu
factures (a precious fragment this). Examination
and refutation of the prejudices existing in France,
againll the quality of certain productions of the
United States, and against the advantages of their
importation—Demomtration of th# bad policy cf
ly ing duties on their importation, principally on
proviQons in and on fait provisions, and
filli in pa ticular—Confiderations onthe regulations
of the French cuCom-houfcs.
LETTER 11.
Obdaoks to the cxtenfion of trade with France,
pioceading from circumflsnces and individuals in
the United States—Proofs tha*. these ob&acles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been removed) by time and th« wisdom of govern
ment —Hiltory »f the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant [ rinciples and abdrait j
considerations on money and circulation—Causes j
of the oagnation of American trade, after the j
peace —Critical examination of French b oods, im- !
ported into America, and extraordinary conduct
of the French merchants—Effe&s of good com
mercial laws; and patriotic wilheson chisfubjejt—
Observations oa money, weights and mcafures.
LETTHt 111.
Ettay in the fort* ■f a tableau, to appraise the im
poitations into '.he United States frtnt France and Eng*
Undun tid■ Ihe author examines at each article,
whether it can be better furniflied fn>m France or
Eoglar.d—lt is principally on this ful>je£t (which
would havcaltonifhed a mere theoriO) that the author
appears to evince great commercial experience. These
kin . ot taUeaut, uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they are much to be desired, are the only sure guides
the statesman can take for th policy of treaties de
prived of which he is continually deceiving or decei
ved. We oncot too much admire the apparent ex
aftnefs of colonel Swau't calculations ; and although
the prophesies of Lord Nuffield have already been
coniradified by experience, and by feversi able pens,
yet it is curious to fee the author of the present work,
dispute w"h him the only ground on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France,
under the required condition, will be better able
than Creat Britain to supply us with fevoral articles,
which the Englifli authoi allots exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's pettishly tiffed en (if he
has any) docs n«t appear to at any time created
a partiality of judgment. The result of this calculation
is that in <789, that is to lay, at a period when arts
and manufactures did not present in France the vast
means and probabi'ity of exteufion which they now
poifrfs- that even in 1789. it was prelumable, that
Fiance would not only have the means to supply one
half of am given quantity of the prudu&ions of Frame
end upland unites, butslfoto enter into competition
with Great Britain for tne remainder, in proportion
to the wisdom of her government, and the industry
of her inhabitants.
LETTER IV.
Calcula.ion of the exportations of the United States,
and particulsr examination sf their suitableness to
France ; this is one reafos why, notwilhllsnding the
exce l-11: work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ln-
Hcan ii by no means fupetfluoui . the principle of the
advantages which would result to France from the
importation of provihom and raw materials, is every
where applied 1 and it is upon this argument, that
the author eSablilhes bis demands to the French go
vernment, for the limited ad mi (ton of lhe<produc
tionsol his country into France.
LETTER V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
l", rnc —Opinions of the author on the finances, on the
effcfhof national debt, on circulation, &c. as more
amply detailed in bis National Arithmetic printed at
Bollonin the year 1786 ; the whole calculated to
ftrengtlicn in France, the pubi c and private credit
of the United States—the happy condition of Ameri
ca, and ihe miseries arising from the public in
Furope, arc contiafted in the ablest manner, and un
do the raofl linking iclatiens, by very'cu ioos cal
culations —Oblervalions onthe wisdom and economy
which prcfide over the public expenses in MafLehu
fetil. In tnis place ihe pa'.riotifm of the author ap
pears, with all the elryaiion winch sfjutt national
pridt inlpires. Tncancitnt g.vcrimenls ol Europe,
fays he, will leirn fiom us the art oi economy in
r:compcnfir.)> he'tivices which the country receives:
Amangliuiita.nl tefeen, that men are ch»Jen for places,
ii-nJ'.oi p'acei for men. Tins letter co:.clud<s wi:h a
cti.cral view o* itie public proaertv, depofred in the
hands of the govrsnment of the United States.
LETTER VI
exarr.i ition of the deftfti of the commer
cial coiicy of K:.~nrc v. :ih tothe United St.i:e*j
nisnv ol thele obler.at-or.s have produced the fla
f.>r v. liich thry iwr re ii tenacd, oihtrs flrll remain,
i> ri.i"ou' the rttortr.s to he made in future, ?s
j n-'ks the fhoaU aud lucks. The au 1.0
concludes his *\vork» by fixing his attention on hi*
country, and the great men v. ho have rendered it il
luftrtous; and we take a pleasure in quoting what hr
ihc present chief of our government. Jo
p/aife a man when he ekercifes a dtHinguiihed cm
ploymcnt, is common, and may be taken for flattery ;
but whilst he is io private life, it is the homage of
sincerity.
Note, page 316 of the work,
•Lea haSitans des btats-un's, fuivant
choix lc bien public, Sc excites par ua principr de
reconnoilTancc, choi6rent M. Adams pour vice
prefident du nouve*u congres. Ses effons, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues formees par le gouv
fruement Anglais contrc fa liberie, le re.»<h«>it ues
fulpedt a ccux qui etoient en pouv<»ir Lt. peuple,
convaincu de son merite, le choifit pour un de fes
reprefentans dans le premier congrei. De ee nombr*
etoit audi M. Samuel Adams, pacriote audi intrepide,
fcju'infatigable La revolation Amtricainc doit beau
coup a la perseverance de fes travaux, & afestalens
diftinges. Ceux que M. John Adams a
dans le tragic de paix, qui s'eft fait a Paris en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit miniUre audi habile que grand
politique. Jit dans son ouvrage fur la defeafe de la
constitution Americaine, il a montac toutes lescan
noiflances qui forment les vrais jurifconfultes &. les
hommesde loi; connoifTinces neceffaires, pour rem
plir h»norablement les fonftiona de president du fenat
des Etats-unis.
" ~N~O T ICE.
A ManufaSary of yellow and delft ware,
Such as nev«T was in this Country before, has been
beeiv lately erefted at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
onthe East Bank of Hudson's River, fta e of New-
York, wheie any article of various forts and (hapes
may be executed, as well as earthern stoves upon a
new conlhu&ion, that saves three fourths of the fuel |
commonly used in call iron stoves or open chymnies ; j
they are btrfides very wholesome and ornamental, by
applying (•
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a Ikillfu) hand to attend to the baking and
glazing part of the fa»d ware. Generous appoint,
xnents will be given. Apply asob- ve, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Eiq.
No. 71 Sooth sth Street
Feb. 19. eod4w
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY tothelaflwill ind teftamentof
William Hhysham, drccaCed, and poflif
fio s given immediately, a valuable property in Arch
street, between Third and Fourth ftre.ts, eonfift*
ingof theheufe, No. 107, with the lot en which
it is ere&ed, a ftat!.', and other improvements—
Thekoufe is 10 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is of the fame breadth as the
houfc and ae>9 feet deep, with a well of water and
• very capacious walled cistern, both with pumps
in goop repair. The stable stands on the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car
riage. This property enjeysthe perpetual privilege
•f a 16 feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide,ext«id
kig to Cherry Street. Its central position and the
advantages it pofTefles with respeCt t» free ventila
tion , renders it wall worthy the attention of any
perfah wUhing »o possess an eligible property in Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No tt, 'Vine
Sweet—of
Robert Hay sham,
or £ A<Hng E»e«itor«.
Fran-cis Bowts Sa.yr*, J
January II « §
NOTICE.
ALL perfoni who have any demands against
th« estate of Willam Fleewtood, «f
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly ittefted ; an 4 those who are indebted
to the fame, are dclired to make immediate
payment, ta
GEO. DOBSON, \ . .. ,
No. »5, So. Third-street. 5 Adm,n >J lr r
January 4. dtf
Ran away from the Subferiber,
On the 24th January lafl,
A Black Woman, named Zelime.
SHE is ot a middling fixed stature, thick lips,
marked with the small pox in the sac
! carried off a bundle of linen with her. Whoever
t takes her up and brings her to the fubferiber, at
No. 181, Arch-street, corner of Fourth-ftrcet,
{hall receive two Dollars reward.
J. LAZELLES.
N. B. Whoever harbors f. id Girl after this no
ticc, Avail be prosecuted to the severity of the law.
Februaty 10. sot
A'ewTork, January 14, 17985
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Publishing by Subfcriptioii,
An Appeal to Impartial Pofterity 3
Br Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Hifiorica! Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in 2
, vols.o<S\avo, of 460 pages each.
1 They will he printed on fine paper and a new
1 type, and delivered to Subfcrihers, neatly bound
and lettered, at 1 dollar and jo cents per vol
-1 u me—one third of the Subfcnption money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
j maitider when the work iseompleat.
, To Printers, Booksellers, and others, who
, acquire Subscriptions, the usual allowance will
: be made.
0" Subscriptions are taken at the Reading-
Room, N«. 149, Water street—the Printing
office, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Rookftorei in New-York - Also, by William
1 ' Young, c»rner f Second and Chefnut street, nd
the Editor cf the Gazette of the United States,
. Philadelphia.
j As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
, ! are obtained, the work will be put to press, and
> | compleated with the utmofl dispatch.
• i Feb. 10. eodim
I PROPOSALS,
; j FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTIOV,
A NEW AND INTI * tSTI NO WORK, ENTITLED,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and atif
t demeanors, by which public and private proper
• ty, are, at present, injured and endangered :
: And fuggefling remedies for their prevention.
BY A MAGISTRATE,
t for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
aud Essex ; for the city and liberty of Weftmin
, fter ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
CONDITIONS.
f This work will be printed in a targe oiUvo, on
» an excellent Engiiih paper—lt will be delivered to
• ' fubferibers, bound in boards, at the moderate price
' of ()me Dollar and a half; although the last London
» , edition, oa inferior paper and meanly bound, in
| now fold at 'wo dollars and a half. To non-sub
• fcrfberi the price will be raised*
'J Whatever encouragement may be given by fub
-1 fcription, it will be committed to the prafs without
delay ; and, barring accidents, will be ro&dy for
publication early in April.
Subscriptions will be thankfully receivedat
Benjamin D/vviEbVs book-Ooie, No 68, High
ftreef, ar:d by moli of the other booksellers in rhe
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; and by Sam
iucl Campbell, and A. Prummond, in New-York.
January 31. saw:a
PROPOSALS,
BY TBF
bifurance Company of North America.
!-'rr Insurance sgaintt Fiat, on Dwelling-
Hoi.fcs, Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) dillant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
f Common lufurancet, oa hazards of the firft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of ahout
half per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rifques a larger preiri«m will he required, which
will vaiy according to circumftanc. s, feidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per innum ; but in some in-
Ilances, where the property ir.fured is not only in
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered dill more so
by the vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be raised
according to cfrcum(lance«.
Monies and Ware Houses, the walls and parti
tions of which are wholly of Tone or hrick, well
cunftrufled, sb a« to b» guarded as well as may be
againlt fires from within, and tree from extra ha
zardous buildiiljrs and occcupatior.s in their neigh
borhood, will he deemed hazardous of the firft
class, and may be insured to their full value.
Allb Goods and * .erchan lize, not o! an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, hales, or packages, de
pofitcd in such buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; hat if more than this sum
is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi.;
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
circumstances.
11. lnfuranees will also be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, if premiums proportioned
to tho risque. But i? is not easy to arrange thtfe i
under particular heads or daffes, so as to defciibe j
each with the neceflary accuracy. F.ach caf must |
therefore he decided upon according to thecircum- |
fiances attending it ; and these circutnftances wili, !
in general, appear from the defcriptibn accompa
uymg the application,
Bu ldings partly conflru&ed of brick or Hone,
are preferable to tnofe wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, andhow occupied, are considerations to '
be taken into view. And with refpe<£t to goods,
their tendency, whether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are txpofed, either
to commence or. to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such state to receive davage by
wet, or hy sudden and hasty removal, or to be sto
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
cumstances of weight; and the premiums must be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following conditiont are to be under
stood hy the parties .
ill. The Insurance is net binding till the ftipu
lateil premium be paid ; but it (hall be deemed ef
ft # ual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whethar the policy be immediately
signed or not.
sd. lnfuranees may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
pense« than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumstances continuing the fame
as they were tinderftood hy ths Insurers at the time
the former insurance was mads ; but the payment
of the premium is elfential to such renewal; and
if the party ir.fured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration of the former insurance, befor-he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured j
during such time ; Sor can the insurance be renew
ed on the former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The (uhje.fl of insur
ance may nevertheless be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance bemadeon the fame
property j it must he masle known at the time of
application, otherwise the policy made 011 such ap- 1
plication will he void.
4th Goods held in trust, or on eonfignment,
may be insured as such in a separate policy; but
they are not to be considered ss insured otherwise.
Jth. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loss or damage occasioned by any for
eign invafi.n, or by any military or usurped force,
or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion*
ed by gnnp.wder, aquafortis or other thing of the
like kind kept in the Building, or amongll the pre
perty insured.
6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title Deeds, Money, Bank and other pro
miff.ry Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, -nedals, jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollar, each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by fpecialagree
mcnt.
7th. No insurance will be made for a (horter
term than orie year, nor for a longer term than se
ven years. Persons choosing to insure for seven
years (hall be allowed one year's premium hy way
of difeount: One third of a years premium (hall
be abated m like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. LofTas sustained by (ire .□ property insured,
shall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, without deduction.
A defci iption of the property to be inftirod will
be expedted with each application, to be made by
a matter carpenter and signed by him, as well as
hy tha owner of the building 01 applicant for in
surance, and atteftad before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowleige of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpefl \olioajei and other Buildings,
1 ft. The site and pofiri. n ; describing the
street of road on or near which the building
(lands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
cumstances relative to the extinguiihment of fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are eftabli(hed, and
engines provided,in the place or ntighbou hood.
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, ftoneor wood, and what part of
each, as well as to the omfide walls as infideor
partition walls, and their refpe»slive height and
thickness j the style of the roof and of what
materials ; how secured by battlements or par
ty walls j what kind of access to the top of the
house and to the chimnies 4 whether any and
what ele&ric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for a(hes.
3d. The dimensions of the building andhow
divided, and the style in which it is finilhed f.
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury; the ge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely at a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pose , also an estimate of the value of the house
or building independent of the ground.
4th. Ti efituatior with refpe*3 to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at lead one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that diilance, how built, of what materials, and
bow occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo
sited in the house, or within the diilance afore
faid, and of what kind.
Refpeiling goods in Hobfes, Warehouses, &c.
1. A j-eneral description of the building in
which they are kept will be expe<£led, similar in
all refpefls, as to the danger from fire, with that
required for Insurance on the buildings them
selves.
2. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or oiher packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kiud, a general
I eflimate 0/ the value of etch kind proposed to
be iqfured ; but in the lift maute* I
ness of description it rot expedled.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem-|
ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
in whatever building they may be placed, viz.
pitch, tar, turpentine, rolin, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable fphits, fulphiur, hemp, flax, cotton,
dry goods ot ah inflammable kind opened.-
Gi.ifs, china ware or porcelain, especially un
packed; Looking plalTes, jewelery ; and all o
ther articles mors than commonly inflammable,
or ore than commonly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by muiftures, or particularly
obnoxious t« theft on an alarm of fire.
Letters p»lt paid, d.reded to the Secretary of
the Board of DiVeflors, wiil We duly attended
to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the
means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately executed on the premium being paid. If
the application contain an enquiry only, it will
be answered.
Br order of the Board, '
EBF.NEZEU HAZARD, Stc'r/.
Office of the Insurance Company e/"North )
America ; Pbilad. Feb. I, 17 )
Feb. 14.
TO THE
Citizens of the United States, j
THE Mifjianary Society of Philadelphia, imprefl- i
ed with the importance of ameliorating the
condition and augmenting the happiness of man- :
kind, are impelled hy motive* of rel gion and be- |
nevolencc to artempt the propagation of christian
aud civil knowledge among the aborigines ot Ame
rica.
Thofc who have experienced the ble/Tid
of real religion, muil feel a desire to
its principles, wherever the footftep3of a fellow j
man may he found -An opportunity now offers,
for such ro evince their finoerity, by laboring to
gether in accomplishing the ancient predict ion
" The knowledge of tbs Lord Jball cover the earth as the
iva ers do the fern .** *
Living in an age when the devaluations of war
teach us to appreciate and extend the bleflings of
peace, all good and enlightened citiceas will con- j
cur with us, that every step which tends to intro
duce the arts of civilization among the Indians,
mull be highly favorable to tfreinterelt of the Uni
ted States.
The eafyaceef* which may be had at present to
the different tribes, by means of government ef
tablilbments in various parts of their territory—- j
their tranquil state, and the freindly disposition of I
fomc of their chiefs—difpofe the Society to believe
| that their address is not premature. They prcfume
that nothing more is neceflary to excite the atten
| titan and secure the fupp-art of their fellow citi
zens than to present their plan to the consideration
of tke public.
THE Subscribers, penetrated with a convic
tion that their duty and happiness are involved in
promoting the knowledge and diffufing the spirit
of„the Chriflian religion, do afibeiate for the pur
pose of fupportinga mifiionary among the Ameri
can Heathen and the frontier fettlemer.ts of the
United States, as an eligible mean of accomplifh
ifig so desirable an objedi.-—Aware of the perni
cious effe&sof party spirit, they think it neceflary
to adopt for their guide (as wall as to exhibit to
; the world the principles by which they will he
governed) the following
CONSTITUTION.
I. The aiTociation fh.iii be called the Missionary So
ciety.
11. Any person Agoing tke constitution and paying
the sum of one dollar to the treasurer and the
further sum of one foliar yearly, is a member
during the payment of his or her subscription.
1 111. The society lhall ele& by ballot an ading com
mittee to consist of a treat'.:rer, secretary and se
ven members, one third of whotn lhall be re- j
newed every fix months—five lhall form a quo* I
rum ro tranfaA business and have power to call
special meetings. x
IT. The society (hall mett every three months at
an appointed place to ena<sl the neceflary laws
and deliberate on the report of the committee
refpe&ing the state and of the institu
tion.
V. No miflionary (hall be considered qualified who j
is not capable of pra&ifingor teaching some ufe
ful art as well as a r-tienal system of religion.—
No other test fkall be required, excepting, evi
dences of piety and zeal—that he renounce all
names and adopt {imply that of Chris
tian.
VI. Should the funds ©f the society permit, infti
tut:on< fi-r inftrmdling the Indians in the agri
cultural an«l mechanical arts, ftiall be established
among them. *■*
VII. As feon as a fufficient number have fuk
fcribed, the committee lhall pufelifli under their
infpe&ion a periodical miscellany entitled tke
" Missionary," and the profits arising from the
sale lhall be applied to the funds of the society.
%* No alteration or amendment lhall be made
in the above conflituiion. without the consent of
two thirds of the members, and every such im
provement must be proposed three months prior to
its difcuflion
The constitution is left for signatures at 177 S.
Second-street.
£s* The Little Turtle t one of the most influen
tial characters among the Indians North Weft of
tke Ohio (who is now in this city) is very anxious
t® forward the views of the society. The Inter
preter, capt. Wells, isalfo very fauguine to the
profpeft of success, and promises all the aid in his
power. February Z4.
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT confifls of 9zeacres, almost all of which it
a fine rich Meadow, (the residence of the late
Ecrl of Stirling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
East by the river PaWck.
Th-r. are on it a number of buildings, forming
afquare of nearly three aeres—The dwelling house
is a very convenient one.and.a fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confilU of 1500 finabearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pirts of said
trail near 300 other Apple Trees—as also a great
yarie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
best and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Tret*, that add to the beauty and eonveni
ence of the place. Its situation is abeut 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 <i«.
from Morris-Town, and IX from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc treuble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in ca(h, on delivery of the deeds, l'leafe to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
February 1. eodtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with much pleaf
ureand refpefl, returns her sincere *c
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
(he has received during four years refiddice in
Philadelphia j and allures her friends and the
public, so far from intending to decline her
ichool. Ihe has ma ie a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every kranch of ufeful and polite
education is particularly attended hy Mrs.
Gi'oombridge and maQers excelling in rtieir
refpeflive profeflions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Street 1.
June sth, »797. Jimftf
The situation n perfeflly healthy : and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjoining the house.
THIS DAY IS OPENED,
And for sale by WILLIAM YOLUG, No. J»,
earner of Second and Chcfnut- recti,
In one large volume, S vs.
(Price of the common paper, neatly bound, 1 JolUrt
etnls ; fine ditto, fl boards, 3 dollars J
americaisTgazetteer,
I EXHIBITING, in alphabetiftl order, a much
_j more full and accurate Account, than hat
been (riven, of the States, Province!, Counties,
Cities, Towns, Villager, Rivera, Bays, Harbours,
Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Forti, Indian
Tribes, and New Discoveries, on the AMERICAN
CONTINENT, also of the Wist-Inbia lilands,
and other Ulaads appendant to the Continent, and
thole newly discovered in the Pacific Ocean : De
ferring the Extent, Boundaries, Population, Gov
ernment, ProduAioua, Commerce, Manufa<9ure«,
Curiofuies, See. of the leveral Countries, and of
tkeir important Civil DiviGons—and the Longi
tude and Latitude, the Bearings and Diftanccs,
from noted Places, of the Cities, Towns, and Vil
lage* ; —with a particular Defeription of The Geor
gia IVeJiern Territory. The whole compelling up
wards of Seven Thowland ditliad Articles.
Collc3ed and compiled from the best Authori
se, and arranged with great care, by, and under
the direction of
JEDIDIAH MORSE, ». a.
Author of the American UnivcrfalGeography—
Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences—and Member r.l the Maflathufettt His
torical Society.
[lliluflrated with seven new and neat Maps.}
(Publijhed actor Jing to a& of Congrefs.J
Also, FOk SALE, as above,
Mr. Alerfe's Univerfa] Geography,
In two large t vo. volumes, price 4 dols. jo cts.
Dittn, abridged, at I dollar.
February »6. eo4t
Neto-Tork, February, 1798.
PROPO3JLS*i GEORGE FORM AN,
lOR PRINT INC Br SUESORIfTIO N,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix months—entitled
PROOFS of a CONS PIRACY against
all the Religions an'l Governments of EU*
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Fret
Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. C»l
---le&cd from good authorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. «.
Profejfor of Natural Pbilofopby, and Secretary to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Nosh tua res agi/isr paries cum proxipsvs erdct.
THIS wort will be put to prefsas soon at
400 fubferibers arc obtained, and no money requir
ed until the work is completed.—lc (hall bepriat
cd with an t legant new type, and on paper ot fu
; perior quality, which will comprise about 400
pages neat odavo, handsomely bound and lettered
the price will be one dollar aid fifty cents.
Those who procure I a fubferibers, and become
accountable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
%• The above woik comes from the pen of J,
Rohifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
estimation -n the literary world—the fa<sU therein
recorded are well substantiated, and thereafoning
and argumen s thence d> duced, while they difco
vcr the found judgment and penetration of the
writer, are calculated to amuse at, well at to in
ftruift. A scene of villainy it developed by the
author fufficient to appal the flouted heart.—Th«
danger to be apprehended from secret fecieti.s it
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human na
ture awfully illustrated, and the hazard of every
deviation rem the straight path of religion and
of virtue, inconteftibly proved both to the politi
cian and the chriilian by llubborn and incontro
vertalile f»3s.
Subscriptions taken in by G. Forman, 2\ r o. 46,
tlVilllam Jircet, oppofsie the Pofi-Ofjice, and by tie refpse
ive boohfsellers in Ntxu York and Philadelphia.
February 38.
Saliffeury Estate.
THE Subscriber, propoting to contra& his bufi
nels, offers this Estate for sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces*
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of (tones ; also a good Forge, ail
in pctfett repair, as are all the Water Works conne£l
ed with these various branches. The Air Furnaces
were lately built tor the porpofe of catting Cannon
for this State.—There are aboi* two thousand acres
of Land, one half of which isunder wood, the other
very fine arable Land, producing the best Hay and
Pa ft u re. The Cannon lately manofadured th« re*
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which is
superior to any in this country, and probably, equai
to any in ?"he world ; for not o«ie of finty-nine guns
lately made, although some of the 84 were bored
into 32 pounders have failed «n proving. The fiiis
; ation is very eligible, particularly for this branch o£
manufacture, aad a place of arms lying in the state
of Cenne&icut, and only 30 miles from several laud *
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from • plenty of water iffuiug
from g large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and which may be converted into a variety of othef
ufelul purposes The purchaser can beaccommodaU
ed with all the ftoak and utensils, and have poCeflion
'onor before the fir ft of Junensxt, and prepar tion
may be made in the mean ume for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. Fof
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, ECq. one of the ReDrefentawvei
in COl grefs for this State ; Mr, Bivid Waterman, on
thepremifes, or to the proprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. 3awtf
Wanted, to Hire,
Al.argr and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or o«
more for a longer term. Inquire of the Printer.
0 £t. 17. eotf
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about 400 weight, in
good condition, and would *nfwer the purpose of
a country Printer as well as new.
Enquire of th« Printer.
City Comniiffioner's Office,
'January ntb, 1798..
FOR THE INFORM ATION OF THE CITIZeKJ.
THE following arrangement it made by th«
Ciid commissioners, for cleanGng th,
ftr.ets, &c.
Diflrtil No. 1. —From the norfh fide of Vine
ftrtet, to the south fide of Mulberry flreet j tt»
be under the fuperintendance of Nicholas Hicks.
1 From the south fid* of Mulbrry ftreef, to
the south fide of Oefnut ftrrert, to be under the
fupennteiidance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the north fide Spruce street, tr be under the
fuperintendance of Jotirph Claypo ./e.
4. From the north fide of Spruce f fret, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under the fu
perintendance of Hugh Huberts. mwfim
"Jii/l Published, .
And to be bad of Messrs DoV>fon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipaf in t*»e
city .price one dollar, twirty-frvc centspn boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribe 6 and Nations of America.
By BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, u. d.
June to.