JUST RECEIVED,
AM »OX SALE, AT
\V. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chefnnt and Second ftre«ts,
(Prict Jd Cents J
Caafcs qui fe font oppofees mx f
Pfocres <to commerce, entre LA. FRANCEet les
k : A l -.-UNIS de L'AMERIQ^'E.
Avre les Moyen» de l'accelirer ; '
Et la comparaifon de la Dette Nationale j
de l'Angleterre, de la France, and des J
ETATS-UNIS. (
. In fix Lettres, addrefieei a Monfieurle Mar- <
quii be la Fay|ttf. Traduitfur le M»- J
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancie* c
Membre de la Lsgaflature de la Republique c
du Maflachuffet. '
Comm.rce efl. la portion la plus important des • <
(Richefles Natioaales- 1
——LeTridentde Neptune, eft le fceptredu Monde. '
LlMistl. f
Or causes that have been opposed to the fa
PROGRESS of t'OMMKRCE hotween F
FK.AKCE and the UNITID STATEi of AMERICA. A
With the means of accelerating it;
And a comparison of the National Debts
of England., France and Amtncj.
In Six letters, direfted to the Marquis
BE ia Fayette.
Translated (into Fr. nth from th-original Eng "
lift Manufcri't of Col Swan, formerly a Mem n
h;r of the LegiHature of Maffachufctts. | n
Commerc* >» tjtc molt important portion of the c
Wealth of Nation*. . t |
The Trident of Nuptune is the Sceptre of a|
the world. Lts«i««».
AT a juncture when the question of g
a Commtrcfd Treaty T»itb France may soon I)
bee me an ohje& of difcuflion, a work of this kind
becomes extremely u'etul to those «itiz»ns of the
XJni;-ed Stares, who may be Hefkons to enable them
selves to view this futj'ct, under its various af
pe<9s i and they will have the fatisfacSion to be
furnifted with the necessary data, to judge of the
ufelulnefs of this tranfaflion. -*
. This work is principally diftingutfted by 'he ft
ri httc.fi of the obfervaiions, the perfpieuity of tha [*
i.'cas, and the modesty of the theory wh eh it ■■
contains. A t Pare, a ft'.a 11 of wit ebierved, that 1 -
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up '
to the very roof with ufcral produce. It is addref 3 ]
ft J to the urfi rtußilc La Fatitte, in lctt r?, h
which fugitivn fo'm, the author who could only ®
devotea lew wceksto this occupation, was obliged u "
• to adopt. Although tirccimfhuc-.s at* ia many th
refpeds different at the present day, from what r >
ih.y were in the year I 790, when thefc letters pi
weie yt it maybe Justly fuid.that lo ma- v
ny abfolnte and permanent data still remain, that ac
the jujiicious reader wilf not appreciate the work * 1
lesson that account; oti the contrary,, as many of P<
"*"* the alterations, which have been made, are the re- 1*
fujc c.f the author's remarks, it will serve to con
vince* him that in all tranfatftions, between free 8t
uatiens, every thing maybe expelled from the ef R
forti of truth and juftiee.
I.ETTIR I. Fi
General viuw of tha obftacles,'createdin France,
td pievent the extension oi commerce, with the ~~
United s—Ofcfervatiens made in a tour, taken
for that cxprofs purpose, upon fi>nie Frenchhiinu
f Slims(a precious fragment this) F.xlminarion
and Refutation of the prejudices existing in France, /
ajfEritlft the quality of 'certain produdions of the
Ut.:ted States, and againit the advantages of their (f
iiuportation—Demomli;at;ion at tha had policy cf „
laying titties aa their importation, principally on j 0
rrovifions ill gener»l, and on fait provisions, an<i
n'h in pa ticular—Confiderstionsonthert-gulitions
•f the FrenchcuiVm-luiules.
LEITER If.
Ol'llarles to the extension of trad* with Frame, J_
piocsodivg from circumtfances and individuals h}
the Uoited States—Proofs tha theibobilacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
bten removed) by time and thi wisdom of <;overn
ment—Hiftory as the influence of the American *>
paper monty —Importa t frinciplss and abftraA
eonfiderations on money and circulation—Causes
of the ttagnation of meriean trade, after the
peace—Critical examination 61 French loods, im
ported into America, and extraordinary conduct
of the French merchants—Effefls of good com
mercial laws; ar d patriotic wilhcs on this fubje£l—
O'ofirvatiens on money, weights and mtafures. tlc
LETTER HI. _
I',ffay in the foil* of a tableau, to appraise the im
poitations into toe UflHed States-from France and . ng
janduntei . The author examines at each articlf,
whether it can We better furnilhed from Frsnceor
England —lt is on this fuhjcll (whith
■would have allinillicd a met the prill) thit the author
appears to evince great commercial experience Thefa .
kin of tableaux, uu'uckily as ••ifi&cult to obtain as "
they aie much to be defned, aie the only fuie guides
the Itatrfivau can tike for the policy of treaties, de- \
privtd of which he is continually deceiving or decei.
vad. We Ctnrjot too, n-.uch admire ihe apparent ex
«tloefs of coionel Swan's calculations ; and ahht.ugh
tbe prophifics of Lord Sh ffield have already been Il [ lc
con'radiQed by experience, and by fcvf>4{ able pen-, 'lO
yet it iscuiious to the prefent work, vo!
dirpute with him the enly grou-d on which he has
not been hitherto attacked, by proving that France, tyf
-under the rccjiii ed condiiion, will he better able am
than Gteat Britainto supply us with (ivcral articles, ;;p
which the English author aliotj exclusively and forev
er to the latter; the author's fa'tn/ity tjfeH on (if he
has apy) does not appear to have at any umc created
» pariiauty of judgment- Ibe result of this calculation
is that in that is to fay, at a period when arts *''<]
and manufa#uies did not present in France the v.II Ibe
means and probability of extension which they itow j <>
poises*. that even ill 1789, it was pre s umable, that ROl
France would not only have the means to fupplv ohe f)j{
half of any" given quantity of the produflions of France f^ r (
srii united, but also to et.'er into competition y
with Gn at Britain for the remainder, in proportion
to the wtldom of her govern>nieiit, aod lltt industry Lv!
o! her inhabitants- P" 1
LETTER IV. I
Calculation of the cxportations of the United States, are
«nd particular examination of their fuitablencls to coti
•France; this is one reafoß why, notwithstanding the f
r.ncell nt work of Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's ,'a-
Hctu is by «o means fupeifluous i the principle of the
advantages which would result to Fiance from the
importation' f provifioasand raw materials, it every
where applied ; and it is upon thia argument, thet A *
the author eflablilhes his demands to the French go
vernmenii for the limited admtiiioa of the pioduc
iiooiol his country into Friacc OI
LETTER V. Or
Table*!, of the debt of the United States at that dc
time—Opinions of the author on the finances, on the t'
«ffr£h of national debt, on circulation, 4c. as more /<
amply deuiled in hit National Arithmetic printed at
Kofto'n in the year l?&6 ; the whole calculated to
ftrcpgthcn in the pub) c and private credit "■
cf the United State»—the happy condifidn of Ameri.
ca, anf the mifcries arjlinglrom the public debt in "
Europe, are conttafted in the ablest manner, and un-
dcr the mod striking tela:ions, by very cu ious cal
culations—Obfervaiions on the wisdom and economy T
which prcfide over the public expenses i, KJaltcfcu- mi »
feus. In this place the patriotism of the author ap- f u sV
pears, with all the elevation which ajufl national 0 f r
prideinlpires. Theaocicnt govenment} ofEurope, c ,j r
layshe, will learn from us the art nl economy in
recompenfingrhefervices which the country receives; ?"IT
« AmongJi KJ r! nitl be fee*, that men are clujex for placet, ' "V!
end net places for of*. This letter condud s with a
grneral vir w of the public properly, denofited in the P
Sands of the government of the United States. e ' a l
LETTtR VI. publ;
eeaeulcxsmtnation of the of the coinmcr- iC
ti»l policy of France with refpe.V .0 the United States;
many of these obfcrvatious have produced tbe iff. il t ftfeet
for which thry v -re intended, when fliil remain f "y ;
pointing out the reforms 10 be made in futuie. as a tlc I C
siwdchartßiaikslhefhoaUatidtoc.il.. 1 !.r iutho# Jai
concludes his'wo U,"hy fixtug .... atten.ion on h .
country, and the ~rt ..1 men who nave rendered it lU
luOiiou.: and »0 ake a p'esfure I.l.quoting what be
favsof the pr sent chief of our ,/wernment. lo
praise a man when he e ereifes a J t n:n s ui.hed em
nloyracnt. U cor.mon, aod ruzv be taken for Mattery ,
but whijft he is in piivate lite, it is the homage of
finccnty* t
les Kotr, page 3 6'of the work.
• Les hanitans des Ktau-unia, fuivant dam leur
choix le ken public. & ex ites oaf un prince de
, rect.nnoiffavcc, ehoifirent M. John Adams oour vi.ee
a'e prcfident du nouve u congres. Ses efforts, pentr pre
les fervei le peuple eics intrigues formccs p-r le gouv
frnement Anglais contre f- liberie, le rcndi tnt ues
fufpect a ceux q.i ttoient en pouvoir: Le peuple,
ar- convaineu de fem merite, le choific ua de les
f,. reprefentans dans le premier congres. De ee nombrt
. etoit at-fli M Samuel Adams, pa:rt o te auffi sAtrepiJe,
ie * qu'in!atig .b:e. La revoJuttun Amencatne doit ,>eau
iue coup ala perseverance de fe« travaux, 3c a fes talens
difliT'ges. Ceux qti- M. John Adams a tievelopDes
J-, . dans le tiaue de paix. qui s'ett fait a Paris en ljSg,
out prouve qu'il et«.it miniftre aufli habile que grand
po-hiqne. Et d»ni fcn oovrage fur 1» defeofc de la
ennftitution »mericaire, il a mAntae toutes les can
noilT.nce, qui forme/it les vrais jurircoufuhes h les
he hoinmesde . i; neccffaiees. pour rem
plir hwnorablemeoi les foi fttons de prcfidcut du fenat
CA. des F.'ats-unis. ■
A or I c E.
Dts
Manufactory of ytttoiv and delft ware,
Jls Such as never was in this Country before, has been
been lately erefled at Tivoli, Red Flock Landing,
on the East Bank oi Hudson's River, ita e of Nc-v
---_ York, where any article of va.ious sons and lhapes
m ! may be txccu«ed, as well as earthen; ftr.vcs upcv a
, new conHruilion, that saves th'ee fourths of the \
lC • commonly used in cast iron (loves or open chymniei;
: they are bctideivery wholesome and ornaihental, by
0 applying to
J. MOUCHET,
- Wanted a fkillfu? hand to attend to the baking and
glazing v >arl l^c ware. Generous appoint,
on meots will be given. App.y agab ve. or to
ad DAVID BROOKS, Ei'q:
kt No. ji South sth itieet
■n- Feb. q. cod4w
t To Be Sold,
he A GUEEAELY to the last will and tcftantent of
jt\ William H ysiiam, deceaCerf, and poffef
hc lion glve-n irsmjdiatt'ly, a valuable property in Arch
ha flrett between Third and Fourth t
it ingof the heufe, No. 107, tvith the lot on which ■■
u t it is erctStd, a ftahlv, and other improvements.—
up Thehoufc is :o feet front, and contains ten good
; f apartmsntj. The lot. is.as the fana< breadth as the ]
rs, houfeand 109 feet deep, with a wellef water and
ily a very capacious wallet! cifiern, bosh with pumps
ed in goop rtpair. The liable /lands on the rear of
.y the lot and will accommodate four horses and a car- i
at rir ge. This proper-y enjoys the per[-etual privilege
:rs of a 26 feet eourt andan alley, U feet wide,exte<id
a- to Chsrry Straet. It? central position and the I
,at advanfages it poffefles with rsfpefl t» free ventila
rk tion, renders it well worthy the attention of any '
of person wtfhing «o pofftfs sn eligible property in Phi- j
«. lade phia, 1
n . For further particulars enquire at Ho SIX, Vine
ec Street—of I
f Robert Hxysham, <
or > A fling E»«gt}torß, i
FrAn'cis Bowes Sayre, } t
e, January II § !
% NOTICE. ;
U- ■ m <
>n A LI. persons who hav« any sgainft '
c > the estate of Willam Flsewtood, of ?
" e Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merrlunt, tie- 1
c ealisd, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly artefl«d.f and those who are indebted 1
"j to the ,fame, are desired to make immediate 3
payment, to !
GEO.DOBSON, ,
No. i 5, So. Third-iW. j r *
e, • Tanuary i. "- ' ' fltT
hi Ran atvaj from the Subscriber, ~t
re On the 24th January last, c
" A Black Woman, named Zelime. \
is of a middling sized Caturc, thick lips,
■ O marked with the small pox in the face—She
" carried off a huodl of lct.cn with her. Whoever
takes her up and hri.'gs her to the fubfcr'iber, at r
' N# jßt, Areh-tlr-et, corner of Fourth-streets ~
shall receive two Dollars reward
i. J. I.A2ELLES. c
_ M. B. Whoever harbor-f id Girl.altfr this no t
tice, shall be profecutcd to the severity Of the law. |
Peferuaty to. ■- n
1- Kew-York, January 14, 1798
r- PROPOSALS t
By Arondt Van Hook, ]
h Proprietor of the Reading Room ; o
r For Publiftn'ng by Subscription, b
s An Appeal to Impartial Posterity, ti
By Madame Roland ; n
Wife of the Minilter of the Interior in France. q
CONDITIONS.
1 These scarce arid very valuable Miftorical Me- b
9 moirs, (which ran throttgli two London adi- a
, tions in a fey will be comprised in a h
, vols. o<9avo. of 400 pages each. ft
s They will he printed on fine paper and a new
> type, and delivered to Subfrii! ers, neatly bound p
? arid letteied, at 1 dollar and jo ce'nts per y'ol
nice -.one third of the Subscription money tobe
paid 011 deli* ery of the firft volume—the re- ft
j mainder when the woik isc'ompleat. ft
, To- frinters, Bookfelletb, and others, who C i
, a' quire SuWfcriptions, the usual allowance will in
t j be made. ai
' I C? Sttbfcriptions are taken jt the Reading e r
Room, No 149, Water flreet—the Printing-
Office, T49, Pearl-street—and at the different th
' Boe.kftores in New-York - Also, by William ea
Young, corner f Second and Chefnut street, nd p;
the Editor of the Gazette of the United States, th
Philadelphia. m
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers ty
are obtained, the work will he put to pref», and he
complesttd with the utmost difjJatch. - w
leb. 10. <?odim g,
PROPOSALS, dl
FOX PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTIQIae
A iltw AND INTIRESTIKC WORK, £NTI T L ED, ni
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Ccnt*imnga de'ailof the various cri-rcs and mis- De
demearors, by which public and piivate propsr- J, r
ty, arc, at present, injured and endangered :
Ar.d fuggefling remedies for their prevention. ; n ,
~.. , ,y 4 magistrate, .J
fling for the counties of Vliddleftfi, Surry, Rent, ea ,
-4" -'-s!l' i°. r . th = " ( r liberty «f W e ft m i„. ,
n r ; ani for the liberty of the Towsr of Lon-
C © K D I T I O H V 'i"
This work wi Ibe printed in a large odavo, on r ;.
an excell.r.t hng„fh paper—It will be delivered to ™
fubfenhen, bourtd iu boards at the niockrite price r
of One Dollar and a talf; although th« lad Lbfirfon r■
edition on tnfericr paper and meanly bound, »
now fold at 'wo dollars and a half. To non-sub- Rc
lcriher- the price wilt be raised.
W batever encouragement may be gi T ,n hy fab- wf
fcrlption, it wtllbecommittcd to'heprrtfs without a "
delay ; and, b-rring accidents, will be roadyfor rf( l
publication early in April. feb
tr Subfcriptinrs will be tharkftilly rectivedat :
EthjAMtN OAVtavV, bcok-floie, No 68, Hibh- ti:e
(l#eer, ard bv molt of th, o»& r hooWelleA ia the or ,
i n I,l,timore ; ,m! b >- p>
! el C. ■Srhrll, an d a. Br.ir.mpud, in New-York. lift!
! J Jnui!r y3l. aawtA efti,
\ '
*V.
t PROPOSALS,
he n iK!
l m ° In fur an: c Company of North America.
ir Insurance agaistf Fi*t, on Dwelling
of Foufes, tfare-Houfes. and other 13ul d.ngi (and
on Goods contained in such Buildings) difiant from
Philadelphia, in the United SWtes.
. ur ■
de j # Common lufurance?, on hazard* of the firft
cc " dafi, will be undertaker. at a premium of shout
,T ~ half per cent, per annum- For extra hazardous
"* rif'jnes a iarger jiremiim will be required, -which
will y«iy according to cirearaftances, feidom ex
!'' teeding one per cent, per annum j but in some in
" stances! where the property insured is not only in
itfelf extra hazardous, but rendered still more so
lU ' by the vicinity of extra hazardous building* and
■ ns occupations, the premium demanded will be railed
XS according to circumftacce*.
33, H«*fes and W* r e-Houfes, the walls and parti
nd tion? of wVichare wholly of front or brick, well
la ci'i.-ru-ftecJ, so t« tp b» guarded ai veil as may be
in. anting fires from within, and tree irorn extra ha
les ?arta«s buildings and cCecupations in their tieigh
m* burhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firlt
111 clals, a"d may be infurod to their full value.
Aifo Goods and Merchandize, not of an estra
hazardous kind, Li cases, bales, rr paclsagos, de
pofi'od in such buildings, to an amount no: ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more than thisiurn
' is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi
tianal premium will be required, in proportion to
circumstances.
, cs 11. Insurances will also be made on buildings and
a goods cr.tr,' hazardous, at premiums proportioned
,-! to tha risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
s; under particular heads or clafles, so as to aefcribe
!)>• each with the necefi'ary accuracy. Each caf? mull
therefore be decided upon accordingto the circum
ftanccsattending it ; and these circumfiances wili,
1( 1 in general, appear from the defcfipticn accompa
it. uying the application.
Buddings partly conftruiSed of brick Or Hone,
are preferable to those wholly woodep. And in
both cases, the flile of buileling, how they are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
"" buildings, andhow occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And with rcfyeit t» goods,
of their"tendtncy, whether from their nature, or
:f- from the manner in which they are exposed, cither
:h to commence or to increase an accidental fire, aHd 1
ft- their liability in such state to rdceive damage by .
:h wet, or by fuddan and hasty removal, or to He f!o- |
- len in time of cor.fufion and hurry, are all cir- ,
>d cumtlances of weight ; and the premiums mufl be ,
se proportioned accordingly. I
id 111. The follov*th<{ condition., are to be under- ]
ps flood by the parties.
of ift. The Insurance is net the ftipu- j
r- lated premium be tuid ; but it (hall be deemed ef- 1
ge feclual from tlie time of such payment and accep- |
d- tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately 1
le signed or not.
a- 2d. Ir.furar.cas r»ay be renewed at the expira- (
fy tion fit the terni of the policy, without further ex- ]
li- penfes than the payr.eat of the premiuip of the re- j
newed tewn, the drtumftancej continuing the fame 1
ae as they were underfiood by tholnfurers at the time (
the former insurance was mads ; but the payment <
of the premium is e.Tential to furh renewal ; and '
e, if the party irfured fuffers any time to elapfc after {
file ejepiratinn of the former insurance, before he j
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured ;
curing such time; sor can the insurance be renew- £
ed on the lormer policy b.tit by computing the j
commencement of the renewal from the expiration >
ft of the .former insurance. The fubjefl of infur
,f c-Ke may nevartiieisfs be open to treaty for a new
. insurance.
s If at y other insurance be made en the fame
J pfoperty ; itmuil he made known at the time of '
application, otherwise the policy made on such ap
pjication will be void. £
. 4th heid in trust, or on consignment, 1
r way be insured as such in a feparatc policy; hut (
the) are not to be considered as infuied otherwise. c
—■ company will not be liable or accoun- .
taDlt For any IOTTor . '
eign invafisn, or by any military ofufnrped force,
or by veafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion- ;
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or ether thing of the 5
s ' like kind kept in the building, cr amoncit the pro-
| e perty insured. ° '
r 6th. Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Sees- ,
t» rities, Title De.ds, Money, Bank and othir prp- I
miliary Notes, are not included in any insurance ; a
nor are paintings, *redHl c , jewels, gems, antique
curiosities, or mirrors exceeding the valae of twin-
1 ty-five dollars each, to be co'nfiden.d as insured un- '
'■ less particularly mentioned and by fcecial agree.
mcnt.
!j 7th. No insurance will he made for a frorter
term than one year, nor '.or a longer term than fe
vew years. Pirfons choofmg to infare for seven
y«irs fhsll be allowed one year's premium by way /
of difeount: Ode third of a years premium shall
be abated in like manner on an infuraace for
three years.
' Bth. I.offes faftained by fire on property insured, £
shall be paid in thirty days after due proof and li
quidation thereof, without deduction,
A defctiption of the property to be ins.-rod will
- be txpedteil with «ach application, to be made by
- a master carpenter and signed by him, as well as
1 by the owner of the building 01 applicant f»r in
surance, and attefled before a Notary or principal
! Magiflrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
) parties and their credibility. 1
With refpea to Hou/tj and other Buildings,
■ ift. The Cte and pofnion ; deferihing the F
- flreet or road on or near which the building
stands ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
> cumftances relative to the extinguilhment of file
I in cafe of aecident j and particularly whether
any and what fire companies areeftablifhed, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbor hood, f
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe- 1
; ther of brick, ftonenr wood, an 1 what part of H
1 each, as well as to the outside walls as infideor in
' partition walls, and their refpetSive height and E;
1 thickness ; the style of the roof and of what
mater als ; how fectired by bittlements or par- al
ty walls ; what kind of atcefs to the top of the
house and to the chimnies 1 whether any aad P l
what eltilric rods ; the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of depctit for alhes.
3d. ihe dimensions of the building and how tr:
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so
as te enable indifferent persons to judge in what 6
manner it, uto be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of p (
njury; the, #ge aad condition of the bui ; ding, en
and how occupied, wheihcr merely as a dv»el- s ri
ling house, or for any other, and ferVhat pur- f r ,
pole , also an estimate of the value'of thp hcufe is
or buildwg independent of thegrctsnd.
4th. Tie fitnatior with refpta to other build
ings-or back buildings, whether adjoining or qu
not, eomprchending at least pne hundred sett
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that distance, how b ilf, I f what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether a» dwel- „
lings for.private familkt or otherwise 5 wbe.- "
ther any and what trade or manufactory is car- "]\
ried on, and particularly whether there be any 1*
extra hazardous articles used, or usually depo- kn
/ited in tbe hoyfe, or / ithin the diflance afore* "ii
(aid, and of what kind. Ps
Relpediinggolds in ffoufes, Warehoofej, pu
*• A peneial defcrFption of the building in !c>
whidi they are kept will beexpeded, limilar in thi
a.I refpedis, as to the danger from fire, with tj>at fcT
AjutJVd for Insurance 011 the buildings-them ed
felvrs. r;,
2. A defcriptinn of the kinds and nature of res
tie goods, whether in calks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
puves «1- in the ulujl fo'rra for retailing. Anii
lMUVgoods vary materijlly in kind, a general «*£
cftimatt ot the vilue of each kind proposed to of
be insured ; but in tbi iaft particular sftinute
ness of description is not expetfed.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
yj ed extra hazardous, though in various degrees,
in whatever building th:y may be placed, viz.
"fj pitfh, tar, ttrrj.rntir.e, rolin, wax, tallow, 01!,
0 1 nilbiiiuuiti't; ipirits, fulfdiur, hc!np,flax, cotton,
dry goods of an iafiantimable kind opened.-*-
Gbfa, china ware or porcelain, especially un
;rft packed; L,ooking gbflts, jewelcry ; sndallo
uut ther articles mofi. tlian commonly inflammable, j
OU3 or n ore than cuxrimowly liable to injury by fud- (
ich den removal or by moiflures, or particularly (
ex- obnoxious ta theft on an alarm of fire. 1
ki- Letters pest paid, directed to the Secretary of (
in the Board of Direflors, will be duly attended a
Sfo to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the t
in d means of paying the premium, w ill be irnme- f.
diately executed on the premium l-eing paid; If e
tkc application contain an enquiry only, it will C
'j' be answered.
* B'' order of th e Board,
EnKNI'.'Zi.K HAZARD, s,c'rj>. i
Office of tke Insurance Company o/'Nort . /
'" IX America; Milled. Feb. 1, 1798. 5 I
'4- v
:ra To be Sold, k ti
k " • BRICK HOUSE, together with the Lot tl
" r " thereto belonging, in the city «f Burling- .
ton > New-Jersey. I'hC house has three rooms j A
to ' vt ' ow ' three chambers in the upper story. t
The kitchen adjoining is a frame buil mg. The
n( j Lot has a front of 7a (eet on Pearl street, and
ied t ' le ' ron t on the river Delaware. The j
efe length of the Lot is about 250 feet —Tlie house :
,[, e commands a very pleasant profpe<sl of tVe river. 1
u jj and of the Bornugh ok'Briflol, on the Fennfyl
vania fliore. immediate poflefiion may be had. *
ili, F° r further particulars, inquire of Mr. Johu
)a . Sims, next door below the City Tavern in Phi- D
ladtlphia, or the fubferiber in Burlington.
THOMSON NEALE. | ~
in Bnrlington. march t. *eortiw
ng Valuable Property for' Sale. P
to ' a
Js - FOR SALE,
or TTHAT well known Estate, called SH-lEWS- "!
BURY FARM, formerly Ae refidenec of
, Central John Gadwalader, situate oa Saffaf Jpßi- K
u y ver, in cautuy, Maryland—containing a- ; M
,°" bout ipoo acres of prime LAND, upwards of 500 . lei
■f- of which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex- ;
be cellent, apd confill of a Dwelling House, p
two large Bash ~» with Covr houses. Stables for fifty
'' horses, a Ipacioos treading floor under cover, a
granary, two Ovtfeer's houses, two 'ran
u" ges of two story buildings for Negroes (one of
them new and of hrick), Corn houses, a Smoak 4 c
P - house ,&e. &c.—The whole Estate beinjj nearly e( j
; 'y fur rounded by water, it requires but 'ittle fencing, e j
and has a good Shad and Herring fifhciy. It is p(
'a- conveniently situated for both the Philadelphia and [ pa
*- Baltimore markets, with two landings oa a navi- _
e- gable river but a short failfrom Baltimore. There!
is a large Peach, and two large Apple Orchards on ac
ne the piemifas; also, a variety of excellent fruits of ," u
nt different kinds. The foil is moflly a rich loom.
ad The whole will b« f 'ld together, or divid.d into
er f-naller fa< ms (for which the buildings are conven- R,
be ientlj- lituated) as may suit the purchaser. The e f(
ed Stock on said Farm, confining of Horses, Cattle, r£(
v- Sheep, fee. wil} also be disposed of Por further an
fce particulars apply to George Hastings, oa the V t
>n pr-r' 1 "-, -r t-th- fnl fr-ihnr. in 'Jiili.i , i"' L wi
r " jvn. ftr
v " February ' : aaw6w au
ae Hoole and Lots, in Bordenlown.
of r T 1 , 0 BE SOLD, a handsome two story Hou'e, tul
p- X. with the Lot on which it is ere fled, fhuat- <je
ed about the middle of the .beautiful and healthy 0 f
't. Village of Bordentown. The house is forty cia
ut two fedt ig front, and in neat order. The lot mv
contains one acre, and is one,.hundred feet on
a ' theimari street, 1 and extends with the fame
u-uitirW, large Lot, eon- <>■
n _' taming nearly four acres, separated TronT/re?-
former*by back street. Onethird only of th«
o _ purchase money will be recjuired upon execut
ing a deed, and for the lemainder, such credit
wII be given as the purchaser may chufe. This I
0 . property will be fold Tree of all incumbrances,
.. and an indisputable title given
le t For further particulars enquire either of Dr. "j'
□- VViliiam Burnes, residing in Bordentowni near , n
u- the premises, who will (hew the fame,or of cij
e- P£ TE> > THOMSON,
Conveyancer, No. 144, Market-street. lo '
er December 3. Sawtf
n Jufl; Published, Pa
iy And to be had at the Book-stores of Meflrs. Dob
ill som, Cawpbeli,.Younc and Onuioi), u s
Jr in Philadelphia, I"
t OBSERVATIONS
On the Caules and Cure of Remitting or Bilious atii
Fevtrs. ma
t To ivbicb is annexed, of
AN ABSTRACT of the opinions and prailice of i"R
'7 different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib- l '(,
,s iting interefling faAs and refleiSiotis relative to J
l " the Synoclus I£lcroid.-j, or Yellow Fever, "which 8 - n<
'' has occafi'.ned so much distress and mortality, a ' c
16 at different periods, in several ®f the seaport cc '
towns of the United States of America.
bv WILLIAM CURRIE, ™
e Felow of the Philadelphia College of • hyficiar/s,,
g and Member of the American Philoioyhical jJo-i en
c " t r- . . Feb. I—p hi
1 Bafkenridge—for sale
J"T consists of 940 acres, almofl all of whie'h i«
1 a fi»e rich Meadow, (tl.ie refidtnie of the lat. I
f n«rl of Stirling). It may be conveniently ituided]
r into five farms, four of -whi.h are bounded on th J
j Earthy the river Pafaiek. ■£]
, Th r' are on it a number of buildings, forming 1 ron
afquare of nearly thres acres—l he dw llinj' hoLs mol
c is a very convppjent one and a fmalltspeßce vnoulo I (.
j put it in complete repair.
j The orchard confifls of 1501> fitlsbearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on 'other pirts of said Se
trad near 300 other Apple frees—as also a great 1
' varie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries ol the goo
' belt and so of! d. lie.ious kin.;'-.
j. Also, a great niuurr ot beautiful Exotics and ]
' ForeftTreo^,/that adifm the ne.iU'y and eonver.i-
' ence of the place. It situation is aberut ■ 8 mites
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth I 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and 11 from Springfield—lt
' is wooded and watered.
To favc tri übJr, the price is five pound pr. acre tc
• in cafb, 03 delivery of the deeds. Pleafc to ea- *"T
r quire of T. McEUEN & Co, X
t No. 78, Chcfitut treet. ftr*
1 February ». eodtf I
1 COLUMBIA HOUSE ftrf
! Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GROOMBRIDGE with muih pteaf- tlie
ureatid retarr.i her sincere 4c- fu,,
knowledgenaeßt for the liberal encouragement 3
(he has received during four years refidsnA in the
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and: he sup
public, so far from intending to decline her 4
school (helias ma te a superior arrangement for foul
the more <oiu/enient accommodation of her ; er:
fcholar«.—'Eve»y Vfanch of ufeful and polite '
education is (.artknlirly tttended by Mrs.
C-Iroomhcidgs am! matters ex.ellin-g in rtieir An '
refpeAiy? profefiioni.
Corner of Sptuce and Eleventh Street!. . , c
June jth, 1797. J-.mfrf £
The CtL.ation ij perfeflly healthy: and trade 1
iroi-e agretable by an extensive garden and lot 3
ol ground idjoining th« house.
1 \ : .I
te THIS DAY IS OPENED,
And for fsle by WILLI AM Y<frn\'G, No.JI
m- corner of Second and Chefnut-.ireUs,
es, In one largy volume, S vo.
iz. (Price of the common pjpcr, neatly bound', 2 dulUrs <
>il, eents ; fine dittf, in beards, 3 dollars J
in. THE
- AMERICAN GAZETTEER,
in a! T abetieal order, a
°" Ala tnore full and accurate Account, thah hn
been given, of the States, Provinces, C»umi t|i
Gities, Towns, Villages, Rivers, Bays, Harboun
"'y Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Forts, India
Tribes, and New Discoveries, on tl*e AMEP.IGAi
of CONTINENT, also of the Wist India Hand
ed and pther Wands appendant to the Continent, an<
he thole newly t'ifcovered in the Pacific Ocesn ID t
ie- scribing the Extent, Boundaries, Population, Oov.
If ernment, Productions, Commerce, Manufafiurtj
•11 Curiosities, Sec. of the leveral Countries, and c;
their important Civil Divisions—and the Lonei.
tade and Latitude, the Bearings and Diftancn,
from noted Places, of the Cities, Towns, ajsdVjl'
Ugcs ; —with a particular Description of 7be Gia
jrialVeJlem Territory■ The whole comprising up
wards of Seven Thouland diftinfi: Articles.
- Collected and compiled from the bed Author},
tie and arranged with great care, by, al:d .unilct
ot the direftioti of
g- l JEDIDIAH MORSE, ». d.
ns Author of the American UnivcrfaKjeography—
y. ' Fellow of the mer:can Academy of rts and
ie Science*—and Member f tha Msffaclrufctti His.
irl torical Society.
Ie [llllu'lrated with seven new and neat Maps,] , I
fe ' (Pubhjbed aecor ting to aii of Congrrfs.J
r.'
j _ silJq, FOli SALE, as above,
i. Mr. Morse's Universal Geography,
u In two large 8 vo. volumes, price 4 dols. jo cij,
i- Ditto, abridged, at 1 dollar.
| February 26. eo4t
New-Tori, February, 1798.
- ■Pi?O/ , 0.?y/Z, l y BY GEORGE FORMAN',
IFOR PRINTING Bi' .SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ei.
tant only lis: munths—entitled
PROOFS of a CONSPIRACY againfi
all the Religions an 1 Governments of £O
-- , HOPE, carried on in the fecref meetings of Frei
1- Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Satieties. C»1
0 j leiSed from good authorities, ;•
■-j By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
' ProfeJJer of Natural Philofopby, and Secretary to
y Royal Society of Edinburgh,
„ Nave tua res agiiter paries cum proximuf ardst.
>f sjj- THIS work will be put to prefsas soon >
400 fubferibers arc obtained,andno money requf
y ed until the work is completed.-rlt Jhall beprit
ed with an 1 type, and on paper of*
18 1 perior quality, which will comprise about X
d | pages neat o&avo, hancfornely bound and lettseii
~ j —the price will be one dollar aiid fifty cents.
e Thol'c who procure f 2 fabferibers, and becfV
n accountable, Brail have a 13th gratis—and tha
' fual allowance to boolifellert.
0 *,* The above work comes from the pen 'J.
Rohifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in i,'ii
e efhmatioH in the literary world—the faols thcin
'r Irii-arK «r>ll fn> jflf f -r. .
r and arpimep«- ■'" J " ~ -induced, while they ~cc
e ver tK* judgment and penetration othe
writer, are calculated to amule as well as ti n .
ftru6l. A fccne of villainy is developed lr\;t
author fuffieient to appal the (ioute(l hearWfe
danger to be apprehended from secret focieti
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of humiiu.
> ture awfolly ttluftratsd, and the hazar„ of try
- deviation -rem the ftjaight path of religTer.rd
sol virtue, proved both to tb ■ pitj.
: cian and the ehriilian by lluboora and inccio
t vertable f^Ss.
1 fjt Xulf'riptions talen in ty C. Porfnjn, NoJ
e tlViliam-Jlreet, opyo/Hc ike Pofi-Of.ee, an/ by the ri,,
. ive bookfeellers in Y.rl W Pbilad;lphia.
g f A
I Saliffeury EftAteT "
s T*H« Subfcrifcer, to co<itmft be
, l . nefa ' offr,rs El ' '»r f»le, om moc | ert
terfes. On it are one BW and three Air ftm*
a complete Borcing Mfcliine, aod a Very eood
J.ll.wuh two p,„. Of fenes ; also a good Forge .
HI perted repair, as are ,11 the Water Wo.ks conne;
w, ' b branches. The Air Furnsci
c r" u
of Land, one naif .->f which 1, ur.de^woo'd.theo'hb
P»lJr The'/ ' 'he best Hay «'
t 1: Gannon mani»ftii»rcd %Ui.
- u "y. P' OVCS ' nc exctllcjcy Of the metal, whichii
uperior to ?s, y in this Country, and probably, cqsl
btT , m"/ e Tt rW^W notone ° f fixtv-ninejU
lately mo-Jc although Citee of rtie 24 were hid
into 3 z pounder*, bare tail.d on provmr The fin.
' r:;y" y Cl /' blf ' P"l'«>uriy for this brar.ckn
7r S Z r '' r/ 3 P ;aceo! lying in the fe
r i,L m ! *'" ® nd o "'y 3° ™>les from leveral £
f ««S on the I
. that relult f rom . pl , nty J wtt £'fl
' „?! i ? &e nalurl 'Pond, very near the fu-nic.
1 I '" !?* y be ™ ,eMnl '"'O a variety of od*
' 1 iff The purciafer can beaccommodi
ed With all the Uock a,,d uttofi s, and hav« ooff ft.,:
ont. r W hc fi, ft " f Ju „ eiltx(i and fo3| |l)n
m«lv be made 1.1 the meantime fcr j;oinginto BlafnV
tried lately there alter, for every pa.t willbt deliterta
.1. gooi order, with some coal. Ore, &c. &c. foi
' V ms ' l Mr Joseph Anth.,ry, ,r.pt„ia<ii
phu; David Brooks, E(q ont oftheßeprrfenpMvu
in Congreft for thuSta'c ; Mr, D-v,H Wate.man, .0
the premales, or to the piouiietor in N. w-Yor«.
n , f WILLIAM NEII.SON'.
' ' , »»' C .L
Wan ted, to Hire,
A a: 'd convenient HOUSE, in or Wr
™*«ntreof th* rity—fw ivhid. a gerere.
rem will beg.ven; to be taken for a vear, or,
more lor a longt r term. Inquire of the Printer
UCt ' *7- eotl
FOX SALE, .
Several fonts of Types—half won.
jf'jS Lon e Primer, a' out 4 00 weigflt.n
good condition, and Would arfwer the purpttfe,,
cvunttj Printer as well as new. ;
Enquire of thtf Printer. ' i| |
City Commissioner's Office,
'junuitrj/ \ V b t
eTivt* H nr t I O?MJII,ON or TH * c,t^EN
I "?• following arrangement is mj'Js b v t
A fa id coniniiffioners, for cltar.ling .
ftrttts, &c.
Diftrtdf No. I.—From the north fide Of V.,
nreet, to the south fide ot Mulberry llrert •„
be under the fupermuri-Ja.neof Nicholas Hit
a From the south fide of Mulbrry flrtel,'
the south fide of Ckcfnut firreit, to l, e uader.
ruperintendance of WUliam Moulder
3' From theTowh firte ps Chkfr.ut flrtet-
Ihe north fide of SfiTuce ftttel, to fceiioder ]
Ipperintendanee of Joleph Claypo
r 4 ", 'he not|h fide of fa,
south lide of Cedar ftrctt, to be ifidu the
permtendancc of Hugh Rql,m-■.«■' n«f lr "
y*i/t Fubu/u, -
And to 1 chad of Meflirs. Cimphdl.R
Cary, and the other jrieirr" t»otli;;ler> in "
city price one dolhr, t«'its,ir boa (
'^ e *vV Views of ft Origin of t e '
Tribes and of America
By BENJAMIN /j™ Bari on v c
Jur< %s. /
/
/