M
M
«■
©p tilts ©ay's £@ail.
BOSTON, April 6.
Pint George Little, we iw n » » appoint
f<J to command the frigate now building in
this town.
There are several report. <n town, «l
events of importance m the Weft lnd'es,
none of which, however, have affunaed th
« form and pressure" of officiality.
NEW-LONDON, April 8.
Ext raft of a letter from an officer onboard
the (hip Sally, of this port to his broth
in this aity, dated
St. Croix, March 8, 1 799-.
« On our paflage from Barhadoes to this
phce, under the lee of Cauda loupe, we:fell
in with a French privateer schooner of 1
guns and twll of men, who engage us ,
exchanging' fourbroadfides with her, Je be
ing diSedwith crowd daU
fan and made of, night coming on , I A
fight of her, not one man
board our fliip I *f.«» behaved ve.y we 1
and ftlitk to their quarters like bia\. K
,0 The Salty mounts eight guns and carries
20 men.
April 12. 1
ARRIVKD, DAYS.
Ship Diana, Pindar, Martinitoig
Sch. Hannah, Snow, Savannah 10
Slooj) Mary, L'ftommedieu, Philadelphia
'Minor, Diedericks, Barcelona 48
Bry Friends,from Martinique, is onshore
about miles south of the Hoolc.
Yeferday arnved the fliip Diana, Pindai
from Martinique, lift from St. Christophers
in At) days. Sniled under cenvoy of the
Washington, of Rhode Island, of 32 guns,
*nd brig Pickering, of 14 guns, with 40 fail
of bound to different ports in
the United States.
On the id of April, lat. 33,14, fpokethe
ship Henry and Eliza, Bingwell, 9 days
from Wilmington, bound to Jamaica, loft
herforemaft, bowf'pritand mainmast, fuppli
*d her with water, when (lie shaped her eourfe
for Bermuda.
Captain Snow, of the fch. Hannah, in to
days from Savannah, on the Bth infl. fpokc
the Ihip Joseph of Portland, Stone, master,
from Liverpool bound to Baltimore, out 70
days, Ihort of provifions—capt Stone gave
him a supply. (
Brig William, Brown, has arrived at Ja
maica from Washington.
Kingston, March 10.
His majefty'a (hip Aquilon, with a Span
ish Ichr. and the Dat.ifh fchr. Eliza, from
Cape Francois bound to St. Thomas's with
cotton, arrived on Sunday evening.
A passenger on board the Eliza, informs,
that the frigste lately arrived at Cape Fran
cois from France, mounts 44 guns, (he
brought oot 40,000 dollar" but w s not per
mitted to enter the harbour; (he lies in a
place ten miles to leeward of it. Her crew
are reported to be in it (late of mutiny
It is mentioned that Gen. Touffaint's
commissary has ptlblifhed a proclamation,
fignifyi'ig that, in fpitsof the mother coun
try, and the enemies of Island, the colony
(hall be free.
BALTIMORE, April 11
Arrived lail evening at North Point, the
(hip aftive, captain John Garde, days
from Lisbon.—Captain Garde, ins rms that
the Spaniards have positively refufed to
fuffer the French trt ops to pass through
thtrir dominions into Portugal. The fate
of Buonaparte, at the time he left Lisbon,
was said to be very uncertain. Five fail
of the line, prizes to the British, were ly
ing at Lifbori, at the time captain Garde
failed.
Bv this arrival we liave been favored vtith
the following lift of vessels lying at Lifbou,
on the 13th of February last :
Ship William and Mary, of Norfolk,
Nicholas Wonycutt, master, from Liverpopl
to Norfolk, put into this port in diflrefa ;
was boarded by a Frtnch privateer, who
plundered him of part ofhi9 cargo provili
ons, &c. and put the crew of the (hip Ac
tive, of Philadelphia, on board, which (he
had previously Gapturad—to fall in 4or 5
days.
Ship A&ive, <nf Philadelphia, John Har
per, mailer, bountMo London, taken by a
French privateer and plundered ; retaken by
the Britifti.
Ship Old Tom, of Philadelphia, Richard
Wood, matter— was boarded by a French
privateer, and, nutwithflanding the com
mander informed captain Wood, that he
had orders to take all Americon veffels,treat
ed politely.
Ship Prudence, of Philadelphia, Joseph
Mitchell, mailer, from Baltimore, cargo nor
dlfchargtd.
Brig Three Friends, of New-York, John
Hafeion, mailer, from Hamburg to New
"V oik, taken by the French, who plundered
captain, crew and of their
wearing apparel and a considerable part as
the cargo ; retaken by the Bricifh. The
above brig's crew was brought into this port
ty an Etiglifh brig from Cadiz, under A
mericJn colors, which had been boarded by
the French and let pxfs.
.Ship Joseph, of N. York, Joseph Ropes,
mailer, was boarded by the French and trea
ted politely -to fail for New-York in 15
days.
Nlacpherfon's Blues.
Dattalion Orders,
April 11, 1799.
r l 'HE Ulticb ui-e orfVereil to }>arado on Satur
-*■ nay, ;kr 15th iniUnt, at the Menage, in
complete umimrii, at 4 oYloclt, P. M.'
By order i t' 1 lie ComrFanc'aiit,
joiin mvauley, Adjt.
gCr" Lcttir Hug of the slip Jl'l-'O fir
Hamdu&ch, •will 1 e:naiyi at the her rf tie
Coffee'Jiunse 'until tLe 14tb hat.
%ljc <3asette.
PHILADELPHIA,
SATURDAY EVENING, APRIL 13
The following production, which has been
handed to us for pi: • nation, fufficiently
speaks in itfelf, the activity, art and dar
ihe' of the partisans of the Jacobin candi
date for the office i*' Governor. A remark
or two, (#i fotne bold assertions contained
in it, is prefixed, less with a view to the
edification of the fix Illuminati, than to
demonstrate to thole who believe in the
neceflary purity, and incorruptibility of
republican principles, that even thole molt j
profoundly Ikiiled in the science of repub
licamfm, may, accidentally, fall now arid i
then, into trivial errors.
Of the personal merits aud personal ser
vices" of Thomas M'Kean, we agree with
Me (Irs. Coxe, Dallas, aftd Co. that it is
surely unnecelfary and inexpedient t6 at- i
tempt to enter into detail ; tor the detail
of his merits mult of necessity be prolix,
and to recite hi..public services, '' ab uuo
usque ad nfala" would be to display a pic
ture, the extreme diverifications ot which
might tend to and which might
present in the back ground scenes of a
too tonib ro u* hue. His independence
they appear to have deemed a more profit
able topic to enlarge upon, whether just
ly or not, depends upon a proper uuder
(tanding of the term. Independence is, >
indeed, a luminous point in a nun's cha
racter, if used in reterencf to his superio
rity over ;«erfonal and private motives, in
quettions of public or of general interest,
and a mind unswayed by tavor, fear, threat,
turbulence er tumult; by the dictum of
faction, or the Varying breath of popular
applause. But this virtue, like many o
thers, in its extension, becomes a vice,
unless its possessor holds alio an iron fcep
, tre over his pallions, a discriminating
judgment, and an exemption from at lealt
. some of the common frailties of nature.
Do we want to fee a Governor as well as
a Chief Juflice " independent" of every
restraint but his own turbulent and moody
ambition ? Do we want to fee him " inde
pendent" of every honorable motive in his
conduit and aftion through life ? Do we
want to fee him " independent" of the
manners, habits, ciifto\ns, usages, insti
tutions and laws of the country ? of pub
lic censure and of the united indignation
and contempt of mankind ? l( such, and
such only, has been the " independence"
of this man, let us seek for other qualities
whereon to ground our faith in him.
The insinuation that thefriends of government
cloak under their zeal for its support, some
lurking desire after monarchial forms, is
an artifice as stale as it is contemptible ;
and is resorted to in this cafe, only as %
foil lA the dodlrine with which it is imme
diately followed, of rearing up the slate
governments into a higher and more im
portant influence, and in fhert into i'o
many diftinft sovereignties wholly para
mount to the powers of the Federal Go
vernment. This is the manner long
since fele&ed by the faftian of Fiance,
in iiihich to conduit their operations a
gainst the government of thiscountiy. It
has long been their masked battery ; they
now begin to play it off without dilguife.
Your Constitution is in danger, cry they ;
your Government too energetic, and tend
ing to tyranny. Against this tyranny let
us interpofean infuperabls bar in the state
Governments. Let us exalt a man who
is so capable of extending or overleaping
. if necelfary the limitations of this power,
and who, impatient of superiority or con
trenil, mlift ioon from the inftintt of his
nature, effeftually (hake it ofti But we
shall not permit them to succeed in effedt.-
ing the deadly purposes:' they entertain :
the peace and happinefs,-.liberty, property
and life of every honest man, is flaked on
the llfue of this contest, and every honest
man feels it.
We, who have so long toiled to lay*the
foundations of a ftru&iire, plain, simple,
decent and permanent, are not to be blam
ed with beholding it crowded full of the
vilest rubbilh—the inlide all empty tralh,
and its external covered with tinsel law
dry. Ihe pillars already erecfted, shall be
supported ; the fuperftru&ure shall be
railed. Having kept aloof the harpy of
Gallic Sanfculotifm, it is not now to be
destroyed, even by the hands of domestic
parracides.
The comparison entered into between the
two candidates, and tlie enumeration of
M'Kean's exploits, civil and military,
is extremely curious, and extremely fall'e.
The fix Illuminati aflert, hat Mr. Rot's
■was not in public life until he became Se
t nator. The debates of the Convention
of Pennsylvania, which adopted the Con
stitution, had they fought for full infor
mation 011 the aflertion they thus hazard
ously advance, would have unfolded to
them a splendid train of the nioft attive
and fuccefsful oppofilion on the part of
Mr. Rofs, (a member of that body) to the
arbitrary, tyrannical, and wholly anti-re
puljtiea.il of their grand malter.
Friends and Fellow-Citizens.
THE present crisis in the
political affairs of the United States demands
the attention of every lover of hit country 5
since the exertion of every power ■which the
Gonftitution refervts to the peopk, has ol>-
vioufly become ir.dii'penfablc to the preierva
tis.n of the republican system, to the peace
of the nation, and to the harmony of I'ocie
tv.
This confederation creating- a general fe
hci ti.de, ;it the, approach of the ensuing
election, v.hrn the chief executivtfmagiftrate
of Pennsylvania will b« chol'en, it has Lecn
the objett of a number Of citiizens (public
characters fcoHeftcd from C- .and the
General Afllmbly, as well as private cliarac-
ters attending from ths several counties of
the Rate) t'j d.'lignate, after a liberal and
impartial communication of lentimehts, a
candidate, whole experienced patriotism, in-
tegrity, talents, and fortitude, fhould,render
him worthy of your unbialled fuffrages : .
Ana the important lelectioh having fallen; in.
art honorable manner, upon Thomas M'Kean
the pre lent chief jaftice, we have been ap
pointed as a committee of correspondence,
to circulate the intelligence, and to entreat,
on your part, a zealous co-operation.
Of the perlonal merits, and public services
ot Thomas M'Kean, it is, surely, unnec.effa
ry, at this period, to furnifb a detail. The
abilities and integrity, which he uniformly
manifefted in every ftatjon to winch he has
been called by his fellow citizens, the learn
ing, vigilance, and independence, which, for
more than twenty years, he has displayed as
a judge ; the sincerity which endears him as
a iriend : and the benevolence which adorns
him as a man ; have long been recognized,'
refpecled and approved. There is scarcely,
likewise, a page of the American revolu
tionary history, that does not yield fometef
timony of his attive and efficient patriotism.
His name stands confpituous in the lift of
.illuftrious,citizens, who firft dilcerned
and refitted the parliamentary encroachments
of Great Britain, .and in the darkest scenes
of the vonteft that ensued, lie deserved, and
received the unbounded confidence of Ame
rica. Whether, therefore, as a commander
in the militia, as chief jultice, as the gover
nor of afterdate, or as a member and pre
sident of Congress, his,labours, in every vi
cifitude of the war, were arduous and unit
mitt'ißg : And when the declaration of in
dependence (to which his signature waschear
fully affixed) proclaimed a. new political era
to the world, he became at <r:ce a ftreuuous
and faithful fuppoTter of the republican caule.
Nor have his exertions ceased with the ac
compli lliment of <he revolution. Prompted
by principle, education, and habit, as well
'as by the interests of his family and proper-
ty, he has always evinced a steady attachment
to union, 'government, and order. Hence
his zeal and as a member of the con
vention, to promote the adoption of the fed
eral constitution, and in the administration
of justice ; while, in private life, his mind
has been preserved from the taint'and corrup
tion of thole pecuniary (peculations which,
rising in rapid succession, have undermined
the property, and depreciated the morals of
the nation.
From the energies of such a charadter
much may be expected, and much will cer
tainly be required. We aim not to excite
discontent, tho we with to awaken vigilance :
nor is it, indeed, the pre(Ture of present
grievances, but the ills that threaten, which,
principally, require your care and circum
fpedtion. An enereafe of the public debt
and expenditures, a corresponding augmen
tation of federal taxes and imports ; the dan
gers of a foreign war ; an extensive establish
ment of land and naval forces, a marked dis
regard of the national militia, and the in
troduttion of impolitic and irritating laws,
are evils which any bad administration may
produce, but which a good administration
will generally be able to correft. Let the
people vigilantly attend to the bulinefs of
their elc&ions, and th*y cannot Jong fuffer
•from injuries^f this nature.
Recent events, however, have developed a
more awful, and more fatal, leurce of cala
mity ; and a queftiou has been artfully pre
sented to the public mind, whether the Re
publican system of our Fedqjgl Constitution
itfelf ought in practice, to preferred to a
Monarchy ! If we review the conduit of
'men in power, we lhall find, that the honors
and emoluments of public office, are only
bellowed on the partizans of the administra
tion ; and if we attend to the language of
thoie partisans, we (lirdl find, that the con
stitution of the United States is pronounced
to be inefficient, that the authority of the
individual states is held in contempt, that tl
sacred right of universal fufFrage is arraigned,
and that Republic'anifm itl'elf is confide red
as an idle phaAom 1 Is it not, then, a so-
lemn duty to take every constitutional pre
caution for guarding the palladium of liber
ty trom the violation of lecret machinations,
or open force ? And what precaution can be
more effectual, what more decent and orderly,
than to give to the state governments the
full and legitimate'influence of a Republican
representation ?
Though we have been long accustomed
to hear the moil infulti#? epithets applied
to the Republican characters of America ;
and thoug'h we anticipate many gross and
llandprous attacks upon the reputation of
the candidate, fubmuted through this ad
dress to your support ; we cannot conde
scend to engage in an invidious comparison
of his qualifications, with those of the gen
tleman, who will probably be his opponent
on the day of election. Suddenly and un
expectedly elevated to the station of a Sena
tor (the only office of permanent importance
which he has ever occupied) there has been
little opportunity to judge of Mr. Rofs's
public virtues : but it has been fufficiently
demonstrated, that his talents and disposi
tions are devoted to the advancement of a
political fy He m, w hie If, in our opinion, can
only be eftablifbed on the ruins of the k'ede
ral Republic.
With these sentiments, and solemnly be
lieving that th« freedom and prosperity of
ourselves and our posterity are at flake, we
offer you all the information and afiiftance
which is in our power to give, on so momen
tous an occasion ; and aflure you of our at
tachment and ellrcm.
IVc are faithfully,
1 our Friends and Fellow Citizens,
PETER MUHLENBURG,
SAMUEL MILES,
TENC i COXE,
MICHA. L LEIB,
A. J DALL .S, .
WILLIAM PENROSE,
Philadelphia, April 9, 1799
The following valuable M;u)uf'cr'pts and o
ther works, haw recently been .»iri'ent:-.l
to the LIBRARY COMPANY of this
• City, by. Hen it v Cox, El'cjuire, of tha
Kingdom -of. Ireland. They defended to
this gentleman from his Graiv] Father,
who was Lord High.Chancellor of Ireland;
and have been presented to this valuable
public initiation as a mark ot the ref
peft which he entertains fur the good peo
ple of this slate.
No. i
The Original letters of King James
the fir ft to the Privy Council of Ire
land, irom 1603 to 1615 inclusive,
in two volumes, folio. Manuscript.
The firft page of the firft volume is
an original letter from Queen Eliza
beth dated 1568. •
The Original Correspondence of the
Privy Council of Ireland, from: 1603
to. 1615 inclusive, in to volumes,
folio. Manuscript.
A Letter-book, containing a corres
pondence rrfpetting the. great rebel
lion in Ireland in 1641, See. folio.
Manuscript. \ •
The Original InflrucViojis of king
James I. to Sir Artburi Chiches
ter,knight Reran of, Belfast and De
put ie of our Reaipil of Ireland "
Dated in 1(114. Written on parch
ment, with the royal leal affixed.
Folio, i
A ColL'ttion of the Offices of Eng
land, with the salaries attached to
each, written in 1609. Ma 11 ufcript.
Small folio. ?
A Collection of the offices of Eng
land, with the salaries attached to
written in 1614. Folio. Man-
ufcript.
,The works of king- James. London,
printed in the year Folio.
■i. Moufou's account of the lad lc
venteen years of the reign of queen
Elizabeth, both military and ci
vil. London, 1682.
.2. Townfend's Hiltorical Collection;
,■ or an account of the proceedings
of the four last parliaments of
Queen Elizabeth. London, 1680.
-3. A declaration of the horrible, trea
lons praftifed by William Parry
against the Queen's Majesty, and
of his conviction and execution
for the fame, the 2d of March,
1584. Folio.
The works of Geffrey Chaucer, the
famous English poet, by Thomas
Occleue, who lived in his time and.
was his scholar. Folio. Printed
in 1565-
-J -J m „
The Painting of the ancients. 1 ranf
lated from the latin of Francifcus
Junius. London, 1638. Quarto.
The Elements of the Common Laws
of England, by Sir Francis Bacon.
London, 1636. Quarto.
More manuscript original letters, 13c.
12. A letter from king James to the
Lord Deputy of Ireland. Dated
" the 25th day of September 1688."
13. A lttter from the Cardinals to king
Jair.es the second, dated " Die 13
Augufti 1689."
14. Letter from the Pope t> king James
the second, dated 1.5 Ot\. 1689.
15. A letter from king James 11. to the
duke of Berwick, dated " Dublin,
Feb. 11, 1689."
i 6. A communication from Pope Alex
ander VIII. to king James 11. writ
ten on parchment.
17. A letter frorr Pope Alexander to
king James 11. dated the 16th Oil.
1689.
18. A letter refpetting the Cork militia,
dated" Corkc the 6th Jan. 1692."
19. A letter from Lord Orrtrjy, See. dat
ed " Dublin, the sth of Feb. 1660."
Royal Proclamations, fJfc.—Printed sheets
j 20. Proclamation by Lieutenant Gener
.j al Gincht 11, dated " Dublin, 27th oi'
a . April, 1691. "*
21. Uo. by the Lords Justices
of Ireland.
21. Do. by the king and queen
for a tall—Aug. 1, 1690.
Do. by Ormonde, Lord
* " Lieutenant Ireland, dated " Dub
' lin, Feb. 4i 17°3-" —5 thefts.
24. Do. by King Janus —dat-
ed the 20th July, 1689.
25. Do. by do. dat
ed the 20th of Dec. 1689 —2 flieets.
26. Do. by the Lord Deputy
■ and Council, dated 21ft of February
1686—2 (heets.
27. Do. by the Mnyor of Dub
lin—fixing the rates of proviiions.
Dated the 2jth of September, 1689.
28. Do. by the Lord Lieuten
ant and Council,' including a tabl
fees—June 2id 1670.
29. Do. by Richard Cox and
John Hanmer, dated June 25, 1691.
30. Do. by the LordsJuftic.es
of Ireland. April 1691.
31. Do. by James, dat
ed Dublin, 18th Feb. 1689.
Proclamations t/hder the Regicide, 01/ver
Cromwell.
за. Do» by the Council of Ire-*
land, declaring Oliver Cromwell to
be the Lord Protettor. Dated Dsc.
16, 1653.
23. Do. by the Lord Deputy
andjCouncil of Ireland. Dated A
pril.l 9, 1655 —2 (beets.
34. Do. by the Commiflioners.
of the Parliament of the Common
wealth of Enghnd for the affairs of
Ireland. July 14, 1652.
35. Do. by do.
dated" Dublin, May 6, 1653."
зб. .Do. by do.
dated " Aug. 24, 1653."
37. Do. l>y do.
dated " Dublin, July 28, 1653."
38. Do. by do;
dated "Dublin, May 12, 16*4."
39. Do. 'by
ion the of wolves, da<«a
- " Dublin, £upe 29, 1653."' .
40. Do. by * . ddi
. dated Novenfiber 5, 1652.",
41. Do. by
dated May 8, 1654.
4 2. Do. bv do,
dated January 23, 1653.
43. by . <lo.
... , dated 27th of March* 1654.
44. Do. ' by! the. Lord .Deputy
and Council of Ireland, datfd May
23,, 1655. • •
45* ■' by'.
datediMarch 7, 1654,
46. Do. by the Commander ;in-
CliiM' of alt the forces of Ireland, dat
ed Feb. 13, 1653.
' 47* • - Do. •• by , .
dated Dec. 2i, 1952.
' 48. Lift of the Members of the Iriih Par*
liament, for 1703.
ef-
A brief u'prefeptatiou of the pre lent
■ ft ate of Ireland, written by the grand
father. o£the*donor. Dated Feb. 27,
of king- I . 1688-9—2 pages. ; ■ ,
.• Cbicb'
tst cm'
if />-
.ter
.1 '
50. Four odd numbers of news-papers,
. printed in ,1689, 1690, aud 1691.
March 20, 1799.
} March : 25, '99.- —Received, in addition to
the foregoing, a dupdecimo work, entitled,
" Ertglan.d, Wales, Scotland anji'lreland de
scribed and abridged,. iviti the historical re
lation of things .worthy memory, DoilJ by
John Speed. Anno 1627."
Late from Europe.
We have heen favoured with the full sluing
1799,frcm the Continent oj Europe, to a
gentleman in Philadelphia. The public may
rely on its authenticity.
Our vessels fail above the feas
with little Or no prutedlion, and great num
bers are captured and condemned. Not
being in a Hate of war, our merchants ai d
captains vainly flatter themselves that ir.after
rolls and registers will protett them and
notwithstanding the examples hefuie their
eyes, the (Jelufion continues : rhty catch at
every filly ftory,*or paragraph in a newfp.i
per and.are perpetually cajoled by the delu
sive -promises of French age ts.
" The ele&ions in the out her a-S _tes af
ford much consolation for fume < ii rac ful
events. I fee you are likely to li3v ma
trouble with Kentucky and Virginia, which
the agents of the dire&ery with to convert
into an American La Vendee, Sri J 'when
their schemes are ripe, to maltfc the medi
um of their attack on our liberties. In this
modethey began with Switzerland exciting
rebellion in the Valais, ar.d then mare-h'ng
troops to aflift the friends of liberty.
Though Ido not doubt their design* I do
not fear the result. You have wisdom and
forefight in the government and a spirit of
independence in the people which will frus
trate their nefarious fchtm s
" The agents of France, finding the
love of country is no longer the order of
the in the United States, change their
condu&. Preserving their ambition, ';ough
cloaKed under exterior profefFons of Iritnd
fhip, they will excite feditiori and rebellion
under pretence of opprcffioci as in Ireland,
and when they have infpirec a por.ion of
the people with a hatred of tlieir own gov
ernment, then they will kindly offer their
aid. I hope these views are now well urider
flood in America. There will b? no fear
ofn a invahon unless the above plan fuje-ed".
Should the discontents ipread, without
doubt an attack will be m de.
" At a iJfce entertarnment given at Ma
drid by the French ambaflador, Col. Hum
phreys was not invited, c ut clafled with the
Sardinian and mi-niters.
f"I fe by the late French papers that the
minister of war complains sadly of' desertion
*— he fays that the conscripts march faft e
noiigh when called out, bat that they desert
after. Tlie minister of fit ar.ee
on his fioe complains of the eniptirefs of the
:reafury—more plunder mull be fuug'^—
they have already ransacked Pitd(T>ont—
they will probably soon have Naples, and
then they will try their hands at Spain and
P»rtugal. In the mean time, my dear fir,
let our own country go on in llrengtheriing
itb army and navy, er cfr own time will
come next."
(Bajctte sparine fUft.
Sh'p John Bulkeley, Aiken, Charlcfton
Brig Franklin, Morris, Veia Cruz
Schr. Hannah, Barlow, BariilUble
Andrew, M'Kinley, Georgetown
Anr>, Pri'cher,- Frederick (burgh
Sloop America, Borden, Newp rt
Induftiy, Rifby, Snow Hill
Polly., Barnard, Charleßon
The brig reported to be below is from
Na\vjpi"learis, fuppolld to Ik* the Gayolo.
Another brig, name unknown, is below.
Has for f*!e, a' no. io< fouVfc v/ EtCr flreft,
Brandy, id 3d & 4th proofj
Jamaica fpiriu, 4th |>roi.t,
St. Croix "> fiIIM
New England f *
Sherry "N
Lifton C WINES
' Malaga J
MolaUei
Sugar
Coffee
And various kind* of-Grocctieu
april 11
Extract of a letter, datml February 2,
Port of Philadelphia.
CLEARED,
F. KISSELMAN,
B A., L L.
The i.ast this Skason,
Mr. 13" Mrs. BYRNE refpeclfully inform the
ladies and ge.iLlcmi n of Philadelphia, fhf»r
ball will be on Tut-May, the 16th instant, at o'ti«
iers' Hotel,
april 13
'l'
♦
dr.. ! 1
do.
* -i
3 aw 3 w