mm* w+iUm* . mm**mm* r.. fTllwW
PERSONS
Indebted to tin] «f Mr. John
of Philadelphia, deceaf< d,»re desired to make pay
ment, and those hnvmg any demands,to prelcnt
them for fettlt raentj to
SAMUEL BLODGET, Adm'r.
of
JOHN WARD FENNO, Agent
to the admihiftration.
. 3.9 . . . .. .ft.vr
The bublcribers
Hare received by the late European arrivals, the
Following Merchandize,
Shipped them principally on eonfignment.whith.
they offer by paekag« to Wholesale Store Keeper',
or others, on very advantageou* terms, for calh,
approved notes, or bills of exchange on London.
Medford is* Willis^
No. 78, North Front Straet.
IRISH LINENS.
Printed calicoes, furnitures, purple and colored
Ibiwli
Muslins, plain, striped, checked-and fancy
Balatoie, jaconet and hook handkerchiefs
Pin! and sundry haberdashery
Scotch and colored threads
Scarlet Sloth cardinals
Durants and calamancoes
Worfled, cotton and fancy hosiery
Felt, castor and beaver hats
Yorkfnire plains and broadcloths
}-' tin and twilled coatings and dufills
C-iTimeres and i'wanfdowns
Stripe, point and role blankets
\Vlijte colored and Welsh flannels
K.:apt Kenriill cottons
Worfled and mohair plwfhes
Pe*ter, afTorted in fonan calks
Spatfes, (hovels, fryintr pans St. ironmongery
An invoice of Watches dc
too casks nails afTorted.
nov ti $
FOR SALE, "
By the Subscribers
200 Bolts Russia Duck,
50 pipes London' pai tiemjr bill Madeira Wine
I pair nine pound Cannon
A few Bales Madrss Handkerchiefs
40C0 bs Fine Flota Indigo > *
13 Barrels Beef.
Willing} & Francis:
Pennftreer, )
Novrmbtr 18 ? §
FOR SALE . . •
By the Subscribers,
ON VERY LOWTIRMS
WAX CANDLES,
OF A SUPERIOR QUALITV,
Either by the single box of I4lbs. or by the quan
tity.
Willi tig J & Francis.
nov 14
THE fARtNERShIH OF
Alexr. J. Miller, £2? Co.
BEING dilTolved on the firft instant, by the
death of James Davis, all persons indebted
to the fame art requefted'to fe I tie with tUe fub
fi riber, and those to whom th?y are indebted are
rtquefted lo call on him for paymeHt.
ALEXR. J. MILLER, *
Ni. 64, South Front Jlreet.
Who has on hand,
TO BE DISPOSED Of ON LOW TEX MS,
By the Package or Piece.
Fine plain and tamboured Muslins
Gi.zzcnnas
Bat'tas
Coflaesß •
Rabobgungies
India Callicoei
Bonk Muslins
Coloured «]itto
Real & Mock Madras & pullicat hkfs.
Brown Sileftas
Tickings, life. (sfc.
JUST ARRIVED,
AN AfSOXyuZNTOr
Irifli Linens Is? Russia Sheetings.
nov 18 $
Horse Infirmary and Hospital.
N EAU THE PUBLIC SQUARE, PHILADELPHIA.
T. Swann, with the greatest
rrfpciS and mofl grateful thanks for past favors,
in'orms the public that his premises are again open
and iu Homplete repair, for the reception ofjfti;
lame and dijeafed barfts : and the flatters himfelf the
fatisfaflion he has hithirto given in his profeflion,
during three years refiVl'euce in this city, will en
fur* him their future favors.
N. B.—This is the season for breaking, ne*k
ing, cropping &c. &c.
Nov. to- _ f.« f
FOR SALE,
The time of a Negro Girl, 12
yea s old, has 16 years to serve.—She is as stout as
one of 16 years of age, healthy, indubious and capa
ble of doing every houfchold woik. For terms ap
ply at
no- Z2B, south SecondJlreet.
nor, 18 eodtf
Joseph Thomas's Creditors
ARE requeflcd to meet at the City Tat*™, in
Second, near Walnut flrcet, on Toefday evening,
the 4th December,
nov. ,10 4t
Mrs. Beason,
Lately from Richmond, Virginia.
INFORMS the Public, that she has for fame
tttne past praflifed a Cure for the Yellow
Jaundice, Dropsy, and tither disorders pecu
liar to Women. She likewise offers her services ■
as a Midwife.—Apply at Mr. John Taylor's,
Blacksmith, near the Nets-Market.
nnt jo <! dlt
Notice is hereby Given,
'"P'HAT application will b; mada a) the Trea.
L fury of the United States, for the renewal of
the following cer'ificates of Funded Debt, (land
ing in the name of Robert Whitworti, of Chdfea,
J < nJon, thefaid Certificates having been forwari
cJ by the ship Ellite, Hatvey, from London for
New-York, captured by the French, and supposed
tp bp ♦>?.
N0'114.17, 6 Per Cent. Stock, dated Mtw-
Vork, »Btii April, 1796, fsr Dollars. 1481,47.
No. 8171, .1 Per Cent, dated New-York,
lßlh April 1796, for dollars 400.
SAMUEL MILBANK. „
>aycmher'tß d6w
WRAPPING PAPER.
FOR SALE, n/tr CH£AP,
■\ Quantity of printed Paper, fuitabk for
'"-r->c«ri, Tobatcowfls, fcc. Bvooire of the
inter,
•;ov 10 4<
The Subfcritjers
v
HAVB JUST KKMVID A » INVIIICE OP
Choice Ciiefliire b s Douhle Glouceuer
CHEESE.
[Per the CmesA?eake from Liverpool.]
ido Boxes of Window Giafs,
Of various sizes, per the Jane, from London.
They have also for Sale,
200 Casks of Refined Salt-Petre,
AND A QXJ AN TIT Y OF
Fine Castor Oil.
Jamet C. (S? Samuel IV. fijhtr.
November 1 dtf
FOR SALE,
By FISHBOURN WMARTpN,
at Nt. u 8 South Four! b-Jlreet.
China Ware,
Nankeens
Teas
Boglipores
» Lutestrings, &
Silk Shawls.
nov t.v odtl
To be Sold at Au&ion,
TO THE H 1 CHEST BIDDER,
On THURSO AT, the ijth December next.
At the Bunch of Grapes Uavcrn, in BOSTO_N,
precisely at I o'clock, P. VT.
Two Notes of Hand,
Signed by Kelly and Clark, and indorsed by
Martin Kinfley, Thomas Barber and James Green
leaf, dated Beccmber 18, 179J» and payable the
111 day of January, 1799, vie.
One Note forthree thoul'and fix hundred dollars,
and one Note for four thousand eight hundred
dollats.
Boston, novemher 14 (li)
For Sale,
100 Tons of Pig Iron.
apply to
s. c. cox,
No. 5, Soiith Fourth Street,
nov. 17 5
NOTICE. "
ALL perfors indebted to the estate ofF. Kif
felman deeeafed, are requested to make im
mediate payment, and those having demands a
gainfl thefaid estate, are desired to produce the
fame to JACOB V F. KISSELMAN for settle
ment, who are empowered by
Susannah KifTelman,
Adminijlratrix.
Ibe Bu/inefs *f F. Kiffelman deceeafed,
IS CONTINUZD BY
Jacob & Fred. Kisselman,
WHO HAVE FOR SACE,
Jamaica Spirits
Weft India and Country Rum
Holland and Country Gin ,
Sugar
Coffee
Sherry
.":»<) f wines -
Malaga J
nov- a 6 dtf
NOTICE.
ALL Persons indebted to the Eflate of doc
tor Hugh Hodge, deeeafed, are requested
ta make immediate payment —and those having
demands against the Estate are desired to authen
ticate and present them to.
MARIA HODGE, adminijlratrix.
SAMUEL HODGDEN, admitiijlrator.
nov 20 5
NOTICE.
ALL Persons indebted to the Estate of Doctor
Francis Bowes Sayre, deeeafed, are re
queftad to make immediate payment—and those
having deirand*againft the fai<4 Estate, are desired
to ptoduce the fame, duly authenticated, to
Ann Sayre, Administratrix.
Robert Heyfham, Administrator.
November 15 djw
FOR SALE,
AT THIS OFFICE,
A FEW Copies of an interesting Work, in
French, entitled a History of
The Admmiftration of the French
Finances,
DURING THE TEAR 1796.
Also, An Hiftoricil and Political View of the
Adminiftration'of th« French Republic, during
the year 1797,—5f the caife* which produc
ed the
Revolution of the 4th September—
And of the refulti of tb« Revolution.
PRICE I DOLLAR EACH. *
Theft two political tratfy, are from the pen
of the celebrated d'lvernois,and contain a thou
sand iuterefting disclosures of the folly, venality
and profligacy of the different Usurpers who
have reignsd in France during the latter stages
of the horrible Revolution mow pending in that
miserable and depraved country.
Nov. , 3 . £
Jamaica & Poj t-au-Prince Entitled
Sugars ' C to draiv
Madeira Wines j bock
New-England Rum
Ground Ginger, and
Tnner's Oil,
FOR SALE BY
Wharton Lewis,
no. Xl 5 south Front flreet.
n<> *- 1 * djt as iawtf
<T> THE OFPICE ?
OF the Committee to su
perintend the building of the Frigate, i«f
again opened at No. 95, South Front
Street, where attendance will be given
to receive the fubferiptions of those gen
tleman who have not yet made payments,
november 12
Cf The OFFICE
of the" Board of Commissioners, under
the 6th Article of the Treaty of Amity,
Sec. with Great Britain, is returned to
No. 129 Mulberry street.
Nov. 12.
.*** An Apprentice will be
taken at this Office; if immediate applica
tion is made.
jiije v£aseci;e.
PHILADELPHIA ,
SAT'JUfi.AY EVENING, DECEMBER I.
ADDRESS.
/It a fall fr eting of the officers of the Guilford
regiment of militia, and a large and rtfp eft ti
tle number of the inhabitant of the county,
convened at the court house in Martin Vide,
on Saturday the l September 1798, the
following Address was unaaimoufly voted
to the President of the United States.
President of the United Statis,
AN address presented to you at this time
on the fubjeft of the relative situation of
America wi(h foreign nations, hut more
particularly with France, fk>\>ld at "leall
poflefs some novelty ot thought to procure
with you an apology, or some strong reason
urged, why it had been so long Jelayed to
merit your reply. We hope you will not
anticipate any thing new, for in fa<2, we
only mean to adopt and urge the manv and
the excellent sentiments which have been
already addrefTed to ycu by our fellow citi
zens throughout the Union.
Loving our country, dctemiried to sup
port it, its csnftitution, and the laws ema
nating from it—pleased with the adminiltra
tions of you fir, and your prcdeceffor, who
was and is no less beloved by you than by
ourfelves—detelling the parricidical princi
ples of France, which not only seems, but
really arc subverting every government with
in theii vortex, can we be acquainted in
our own minds,—.~ould we be in the opini
on of our fellow citizens, did we hesitate to
made this dsclaration ?
We abhor the modern innovations, and
that word " Reform," which in the fontl
credulity of our imaginations, we believed
to be for the amelioration of the situation of
man, we now fhu:i as we would a monster
ready to engulph all fecial order, annihilate ,
cijril government and subvert the heretofore ;
approved course of things.
If France, compelled by that imperious
necefiity which is some tinyes an apology I
with the historian for a&stending to destroy j
a social compaft could even produce that, 1
an imp-oper prejudice of America might j
(till furaifh her with apologists—hut when !
wc fee governments never yet obnoxious,
even to fanciful writers, a3 well a$ thufe j
which imagination had formed tyrannical,
and #ur own which has for its balls every
principle preservative of the happiness and
security ot virtue and industry, attempted
to be deftroyed-*-can we resist ths imputfe
of declaring that her nominal government is
an unheard of tyranny —a compadt with
which would as rapidly, and as effe&Ually
destroy our rising empire, as an army of
their Myrmidons might for the moment af
fed our internal order.
If we have not exprefled these opinions
so early as most of our fellow citizen', re
ceive fir, our opology—fo large an appor
tionment of the county of the county of
Guilford never convened together as on this
day, since the dispatches from our envoys
to Franc# arrived, and delicacy of fentiinent
in those who did, prevented them from ®b
truding their opinions as of those who did
not.
It is netdlefs to tell you that your admi
nistration has our warmtft approbation—lt j
is needleFs to tell you our determined refo- '
lntion to hipport the measures of that ad
miniflration, and 'tis only from your great '
and well known gnodnefs we can hope an '
excuse for not exprefiing tlicfe opinions be
fore this day.
We believe sincerely with you fir, in a
sentiment lately expressed, that much indeed
of our fafety depends on the exertions used
for the eftablilliing an American Navy, and
that a part of our fellow (pitiaen* cannot be
more beneficially employed than by endea
vouring to perfeA it.
May that kind Providence which has
watched over the liberty and independence J
of the United States,continue its protection t
to you, one of their choicelt guardians, and l
lonfc preserve a life dear and efTentfal to its .
country's happiness.
JOHN HAMIL TON, Chairman. (
Refdved Unanimously,
That this Address be signed by Major '
John Hamilton, the chairman, in behalf of '
this meeting, and that it be transmitted to !
John Steele, Esq. with a request that he
deliver the fame to his excellency the Presi
dent. '
Attefl, 1
DUNCAN CAMERON, Sec'ry. \
ANSWER. 1
To the Officer: of the Guilford Regiment of J
Militia, and the Inhabitants of the County, '
convened at the Court-house in Marlin-oilie, '
on the 15 th of September, 1798,
gentlemen, /
THE unanimous address adopted by you
has been transmitted to me as you dire&ed, i
by Major John Ham.lton to Mr. Steele, ,
and by Mr. Steele to me.
AddrefTes, like yours, so friendly to me 1
and so animated with public spirit, can nev. r 1
(land in »eed of any apology. It is, on the i
contrary, very true, that the afFe&ionate 1
addrtfTes of my fellow-citizens have flowed 1
in upon me, from the various parts of the ]
union, in such numbers, that it has been ut- ,
terly impofiible for me to preserve any regu
larity in my answers, without negUaing ,
the indifpenfablc duties of my office. This/ ,
and a long continued and very dangerous
ficknefsin my family, most fenoufly alarm
ing to me, will, I hope, be accep;ed by you,
and by all others whose favors have not been
duly noticed, as an apology for a seeming
neglect which has been a very great mortifi
cation tojne. There is no language within
my command, fuficient to exprefsthe fatis
faction I have felt, at the abundant proofs
ot harmony And unanimity among the peo
ple, efp«cially in the Southern states, and in .
rione m it reradrkably; than in North-Ca
rolira.
Your patriotic address, adopted cn the
ground where a memorable battle was fought
by freemn, on the 15th of March, 178!,
iri defence of their liberties and support of
their independence, is peculiarly forcible and
affedking.
(Signed) JOHN ADAMS.
Quincy, oSober 19th, 17 98.
From tLe Columbia!! Mir^o*.
I Number IV.
_ »
TO THE PEOPLE OF VIRCINFA.
c Fellow Citizens,
THE Sedition Law is charged also with
r uneonftliuvtSnaiity, because it is supposed
to infringe the freedom cf speech and of the
: press. Let this objedlio 1 be examined,
1 and let our enquiry bs in what instances the
' freedom of speech or of the press is infring
-1 «d. As to speech it is no where embraced
j in the law, it being explicitly confined to
malicious defamations in print or writing.
1 This is so apparent that I shall content my
felf merely with referring the attention of
the reader to the words of the law which has
' been literally recited.
The fr-edom of the press has been long :
understood an 1 completely enjoyed in our
' country. It is secured to us by the funda
mental laws of each Hate, and by the go-;
vcrnment of the United States. From the
means which have been taken to preserve i ,
we ipay learn how invaluable it is elleemed
throughout America. Isy t'le third amend
atory article to the conllitution it is provid- ■
1 ed tbat " Congress shall make no law rc
" fpedling an eftablifiiment of religion, ov .
" prohibiting the free exercise thereof, or
" abridging the freedom of speech, or of the
. " press, or the rights ot the people peace- '
" ably to aiTtmblc and to petition the go- ;
" vernment for a redress' of grievancts'" j
! If the law of congress whifh is ncv the sub- 1
; jest of difcullion declares and recognizes the
I freedom of theprefs, a3 it was beli«v*d to ex
-1 i(t in ill the ilate3 when the conllitution
! wa« adopted, it is cle ir chat it has not a
| bridged it, and consequently is conllitution
al ; for congress is not restrained from paf
-1 sing any law whatsoever concerning the
■ press, but from palling any laws abridging
, the freedom of the press.
1 The freedom of the press differs from
the licentioufncfs of the press, and tl\e laws
which prohibit and restrain th<e latter, will
always be found to affirm and preserve the
former. Our ideas concerning the liberty
of the press having been originally derived
from the British law, I beg leave to quote
» hat a learned and celebrated English judge
. has written on the fubjeft. Sir William
Blackftone fays " the liberty of the prefa
is indeed essential to the nature of a free
state ; but this confifls in laying no previ
ous restraints upon publications, and not
in freedom from censure for criminal matter
•wh npuUifhed{ Every freeman has an un
doubted right to lay what sentiments he
pleases before the public : To forbid this is
to destroy the freedom of the press ; but if
he publics what is improper, mischievous, or
illegal, he must lake the consequence of his
own temerity.—To fubjeft the press to the
| reftriftive power of a licenser, as was for
: mrrly done bsfore and since the revolution,
is to fubjedt all freedom of sentiment to the
prejudice of one man, and make him the
j arbitrary and infallible judge of all contro.
verted points in learning, religion and go
vernment t But to punish as the law does
at present any dangerous and offenfive writ
ings, which, when published, shall, on a
fair and impartial trial, be adjudged of a per
nicious tendency, is necjfary for the prefer,
vation of peace and good order of go'jernmeut
and religion, the only solid foundations of civ:'
liberty. Thus the will of individuals is ft ill
lefc free ; the abuse only" of wi'l is
the objedl of legal punifhment.—Neithr: 13
any restraint hereby laid upon freedom of
thought or enquiry ; liberty of private sen
timent is (till left ; the difieminating,
or iflaking public of bad sentiments, de
ftrirftive of the ends of society, is the crime
which society eorreas." 4 Blackflone's
Com. ij>.
So just has this view of the fcecJom of
ithe press been considered in \rrerica, that
in every state we nave conformed to it, and
in no state are libellous writings exempt
from legal prosecution and punishment. In
Pennfylvaria it has been made a part of an
article in its constitution—«« that the prini
ing prefJes shall be free to every person who
undertakes to examine the proceedings of
the legiftature. or any branch of govern
ment, and no law shall ever be made to re
frain the right thereof. The free communi
cation of thoughts and opinions is one of
the invaluable rights of man ; and every ci
tizen may freely speak, writr and print on
any fubjed, being refportlSble for the abuse of
that liberty" J
This provision in the Pennsylvania con
stitution, adopted in the year 1790, is so
exa&ly like the definition giv*n by
Blackftone of the freedom of the press, as
to furnifh the strongest proof of tbe appro
bation of that state of his sentiments. There
it !s conceived perfeftly compatible with
the l.berty of the press, to make every man
refponfibic to the laws for an abuse of that
liberty ; There libels are deemed fit fubie&s
of legal punifhmcnt, as they are in every
other ovitiaed caunt.v, where any degree
ot rational government exists. There it is
no abridgement of the freedom of &e press to
P u .ni . £vtr y P«fon, wh« shall, by wrrtine
printing, uttering orpublifhing any falfe or
malicious writing,, defam. the president of
the United States, or congress, or the chief
mag,Urate of that state. Such to-, is ,1k
sense of every other state on this fubied
In very corner of the United State,, the
freedom of the press is alike underttood, in
theory ; and it is every where enjoyed under
f . e P rm fP le ' malicious and wicked
wifehoods may no; be pri U t{d with inpu.
• n ' ty " . Ia : vcr * » mallcio^alfchoo,
uttered inivr„ t „.,, amo „» the , J
' ' ntCn . t '° dc [ a . me the pwfidct, or to brinj
. h m into public eorre«tpt, is considered a «
F f. n ; ffen «' court, ofth*
* . r h ". 1h 5. r 1» on 4'Wce itfelf ia 9n _
1 part,CMt concede., when it declares, Z t
the fame time we protest.against unmerited
\t *U J gov'einment; £
them be pumftedAtt let them be P u ni fc ed
by the proper authority." Hence it a Ppea ,|
that the. reedom of the press is not abridged
by a law'that declares and limits the Punf(h
ment of l.Bels agamft our govern,. j f
such a law .s conftrtted to infringe the free
don. of the press, then, in no part of the "
United Mates do w e enjoy, or have we en
joyed a freedom of the press', and we are
, now to be taught by the Illumin'ati of At ! '
bemarle what the freedom of the p'refs U
If it is 110 of the freedom nf
tbe press to pumfti mSir°
11 racy of the United States by taea„s 0 f The
dilate courts, I cannot perceive that there
will be any abridgement of it to pumfh the
fame kind of libels by means'of the federal
courts. What is punishable as libels by
either tribunal, is admitted to be a public
offence, n public offence against the United
States, for which reason it would seem
nwre properly cogniz ble before the courts
and under the laws of the United Sutes
The constitution of Femifyloania has al.
so provided " that h profecutioa f or the
, publication of papers iuvclligating the offi
cers or men in a public capacity, or where'
tAe matter publiflied is proper for public in
formation, the truth thereof may be given
in in evidence, and in aH n.diftmetits for
; libels, the jury (hall have rijht to determine
; the law and the fafts under the direction of
the court as in other cases " In these res
; pedis the sedition law of o ngrefs alfo
altered the oi l law as it was received in A
j merica. Ui.der it also, the truth may now
: be given in evidence, which before was not
admitted ; and the jury may now detrr
j mine the law and the sacK though before
I thiy could only determine the foas. So
careful hascongrefs been to and cher-" "
lib the freedom of the press by the regula
tions of law, which they have an undoubt-'
ed right to d<J, though thdy are restrained
from abridging.
With this view of the constitution of the
United States, a'id of the principles of the
law, let us particularly attend to what it
has enacled. Ihe sedition law has enafted
that any person after conviftion shall be pu
nished by a fine not exceeding two thoufarid
dollars; and by imprisonment not exceed
ing two year , who ihall write, print, utter
or publish, any faife, fcandabus and mali
cious writing or wtitings, against tire go
vernment of the United Slates, or either
house of congress, or the President, tuM
intent.
i ft. To defame or bring them or either
of them into contempt.
2dly. Of to excite against them or either
of them the hatred of the people ;
3_dly. Or to stir up sedition within the
United State# ;
4thly. 0r to excite any unlawful combf
nations therein for oppefing or refilling any
law of the United States, or any aft of the
Prefideut done in pursuance of such law, or
of the powers in him vested by the confti*
tution ;
sthly. Or to refill, oppose, or defeat any
such law or aft ;
<sthly. Or to aid, encourage, or abet any ...
hostile designs of any foreign nation against:
the United States, their people or govern
ment.
Every thing here enumerated is ?riminal
in itfelf and ought to be prevented ; and sure»
ly to prevent falfe and malicious publiea-,
tions, intended to promote the commiffioo
of such crimes, was the duty of the legifla- *
ture. I repeat it, the law forbids nothing
that a good citizen wifhea to do : It impofea
norellraint on truth, but endeavours tofuf.
press wicksd falfhood.—Can this be deemed
an abridgement of the press—or rather, is ic
not placing the prefa upon the proper foun
dation to render it a permanent blefling to
society ?
To conclude the point of constitutionality
the rights of the (late, and the" jurifdifti< n
oftheftate court?, retain their full force;
neither are abridged or impaired in their
cognisance us the offences fpecified in the
law. They remain entire and in their for
mer condition—Nor has the freedom of the
press been infringed but it has been declared
and acknowledged as it has ever been under-'
flood to exist in this country. If opinion*
were circulated and acquiring credit in the
community, that it was not, criminal to libel
the the president, or the govern
ment of the United States, this law, by gi
ving seasonable notice to the people of the
•errors of such opinions will not fail to p>o
- the moll salutary and beneficial effeft.
upon the cause ef good order and rational
liberty, wrthout which a state of society raiift
be a state of m;fery and oppreffipn. *
VIRGINIENSIS.
Canal Lottery, No. IT.
Will re-commence drawing in the course oJ~
the pre/cut month.
PICKETS to be hid Eight Dollars eich, U
L WILLIAM JJLACKBUKN's Lottery
and Brokers office, No. 64 South Second-llreet,
where cheeß books are kept for regHTering ind
eximinatirtn of' Tickets in the above, City of
Washington and Patterfoii Lotteiies, &c.
Stat* of thi WbiU,
One prize of 10,000 dollars 10,00 a
Five 4,oc® 20,000
Two
Two i,oco »,oea
Ten sco 5 ,c0 '
Twenty-ieveo 200 S>
With a full proportion «f the me hundred
ind of the fifty rfwltar prizes—The Lortery
more than two thirds drawn and above ij,oco
dollars rfcher than at the commencement-
Rote, the bufinefi of a Broker daly >t
tendfcd-to in .1) Its brawhrt.
Nov. r 5u ft -'