Tj it S*d,
Aii •legant Couutry Seat,
Containing $ acres and 40 perches, with a >cat
rwc ft or j brick Hoiifr and kitchen thereon, an ap
ple Orchard, <te iit'jate on the Irilh traA lane, m
the township ot Moyameafiag, about one mils from
rile city of Philadelphia. Farther parti;u!>n will
he - d« knuwK upon application at the ofi«c of
the Philadelphia Gazette.
The improvement! upon thii plaoe, far tafia and
dcgMtce lkand unrivalled.
!< J. B> tf the above place is not fold befort the
j<nh iaft. it will then be rcatad, for the Summer
fcfon only. { march J.
Wanted,
An a&ive, cleanly, industrious wamaa teeook
and do the bahnefa us the kitchea. Such a one
will be allowed good wages, and no other seed ap
ply—Enquire of the Printer-
February J }
Notice is hereby given,
' I 'HATepplieatioa will be made fo# the renewal
X of a Certificate of a Share ia the Bank of the
United States, Sanding ia the naaaa of the Subscri
ber, No. 5*04, aad dated July 11,1797 —the Same
having been loft.
JOHN GRAHAM.
march S >6w
TO LIT,
And may 4» cnltrtd a* immsdiattlj,
A good dry Store,
Thraeileries high, and in aa excellent Sand for
tafiaafe. Apply to
Thtmm iff Jofltua Fit*,
march I. 5 tic, s. Dock-ltrca^
Wanted to live in the Country,
About five miles from thia city, a sober dea
dly Man who understands gardening and the
management of a few acres of laad, and would
not objefl to attend a couple of horfee. Such
a one nay meet with liberal wages by applying
at the oflce of thia Oaaette.
N. B. Ncae aeed apply hut those of unex
ceptionable charzflert.
March it. dta
1 m < ii ■■■■ m ■■■ ■■ .1
Custom House,
DiJtriS tf PIUNSTLVANIA, Af»ll 6(*, I7j7>
MERCHANTS of PHILADELPHIA,
who may have any account or knowledge ul
the capture or detention of aay fhtp or velTel, tar
go, or other property, beloaging to citizens of the
United States, rcfiding within this diilriS, by or
andcr the aatherity of foreign nations, since the
flrft day-ef O&ober, 179 a, are particularly requct
ted to give in information thereof, to the Collec
tor of the Port of Philadelphia, as soon as may
be convenient; fpecifying the name of the vessel,
•he captain's name, the number of tons, the efli
mated value of the vefel, if condemned, the esti
mated value of her cargo, or other property, whi
ther carried, and by, or under the authority of
what nation captured, with fitch observations as
nay be thoaght neeefiary upon the circuixftances
of each cafe, in order that ftatemertt thereof may
be tremitted to the Secretaiy of thcTreafury,
who it required to lay the fame beforr the Senate
and Houfu of Representatives of the United States.
rr.arch 7. jiot
w.4,a fan
A Gerdtner—a Single Man.
None need apply, unleft he can bring good re
commendation;.
Enquire at No. ja Merkct-flrcct.
ry.arch T7.
FOR SALE, 1 ~
By WHARTON 6f LEWIS,
Mo. iij South Front Street.
A quantity of Tanner's Oil,
4th proof Jamaica Rum, > entitled to
1(1 and »d proof Brandy, f drawback.
Madeira Wine,
Juniper Berries, ice. ica
Fab 9. eodtf
Valuable Property for Sale.
FOK SALE,
npHAT well known Eflate, called 6MRIWS-
X BURY FARM, formerly the reGdence of
Oeneral John Gadwalader, firuate on Saffafrai Ri
ver, in Kent county, Maryland—containing a
bout 1900 acre* of prim* LAND, apwirdief (00
cf which are in woods. The Buildings are all ex
cellent, and consist of a handfume Dwelling Houfc,
two large Barns with Cow houses, Stables for fifty
horses, a spacious treading floor uuder cover, a
granary, two • Overseer's houses, two ranr
get of ttyo story buildings for Negroes (one of
them mw and of I rick), Corn houses, a Smoak
house , Sc. &c.—The whole Eflate being nearly
furroundrd by water, it requires but little fencing,
•ndhas a good Shad and Herring fifhriy. It it
• Sonveniemly fitaated for both the Philadelphia and
Baltimore markets, with two landings on a navi
gable river but a short fail from Baltimore. There
U a large Peach, antkwo large Apple Orchards on
thepiemifes; also, a variety of excellent fruits of
different kinds. The foil it mottly a rich loom.—
The whole will be f -Id together, or divided into
/trailer farms (for which the buildings are conven
iently situated) at may suit the purchaser. The
Stock op said Farm, consisting of Horfitt, Cattle,
Sheep, fcc. will also be disposed of.——For further
particulars apply toGxoaoz Hastings, on the
premifct, or to the fubferibsr". in Philadelphia.
ARCHIBALD M'CALL, jwk.
February £4. aaw6w
Bafkenridge—for sale
IT eonCftt of 910 acres, ilmoft all of which ii
a fine rich Meadow, (the refideßccof the lzte
Earl of Sterling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arg bounded on the
Bail by the river Pafaick.
Tiure are on it a number of bnildings, forming
a square of nearly three acru—The dwelling house
is a vsry convenient or.e andja small expefnee would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard confiftt of 1509 finsbeariog ertgraf
ad Apple Trees—and there ii on other parts of said
trad «ear 300 other Apple Treea—at also a great
variety of other fruits .particularly Cherries of the
bed and sisft delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Pored Treos, that add to the beauty and eonveni
ence cf the place. Its lituation it ab&ut 18 miles
from the towni of Newark and Elizabeth : to do.
from Morris-Town, and 11 from Springfield It
it wooded and watered.
To fare trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
incalh, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chcfnut trcct.
February*. todtf
Canal Lottery—-No. 11.
WILL commence drawing Monday, the 10th
intt. Tickets for Sale m this Lottery at
Dtllsrt, at W'm. BLACKBURN', l.otiiry
and Brokers Office, No. 64, South Secoad-flreet—
7.ckets in the Schuylkill Bridge Lottery, at Ta
D-ttari, where check books are kept tor regiller-
Ing »nd examining in these, the Oity of Washing.
ton, No 11. and Pattvrfon Lotteries, and informa
tion wh.re tickets may be had in molHof the Lotte
ries authcrifed tfy law in apy of the states of the
Union.
N.B. The bifinefsof a Bnnxta, inbuyingasd
fclling all kinds of Pablic Stock and Securities
difcoaating Bills and Note, of Hand, sale of
luands, Hoafes, See. kc. will be duly attended to
ky / BLAfCKBURN. '
j
PROPOSALS,
Insurance Company of North America.
For ImuaANCE against Fia*, on Dwelling-
Houses, . are-House.. and other Buildings (aad
on Coods contained iufuch Buildings) diuant troai
Philadelphia, in ths United States.
I. Common lufurancet, on hazards of the fir®
dafs, will be undertaken at a premium o. ahoilt
hall per cent, per annum. For extra hasardous
riiqass a larger pretriam will be requires,, wh.i.
will vaiy according to'circumftances, feiuom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some in
flances, where the property infurcd ia not only m
itfelf ertra hazardous, hut rendered ftdl mo« lo
by the vicinity of extra hazardous building* an<
occupations, tha premium demanded will be ''*■*-
according to circumstances.
Hoales and Ware Houses, the walls and parti
tions of which are wholly Of flone or brick, wei
conf&uAed, so a- to be guarded as well as may be
again* fires from within, ar.d tree Irom extra na
aardous buildings and occcupations in their neig -
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the firtt
daft, and may be insured to their foil value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not of an extra
hazardous kind, in calks, bales, or pacsAgsfl, de
pofitcd in such buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars; bat if more than thit f«m
is required to beinfnrad in one tenemcat, an add>
tional premium will be reqaired, ia proportion to
circumftancet. ,
11. Infuranees will also be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tha risque. But it i s not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or daffes, so as to defcrihe
each with tlhe necefiary accuracy. Each cafe must
therefore be derided apen according to the c.-rcum
ftances attending it; aad these circumftanees Win,
in general, appear from the description accompa
nying the application,
Ba ldings partly conflrnfted of brick or uone,
are preferable to those wholly wooder. And in
both cases, the flile of buitting, how thsy are oc
cupied, how they are situated, the neighboring
buildings, and how occupied, are confederations to
be taken into view. And wkh rdptA to goods,
thati'tendency, yrhether from their nature, or
from the manner in which they are sxpofed, either
to commence or to iacreafe an accidental fire, and
their liability ia such state to receive damage by
wet. or by sudden and hilly removal, or to be Ro
len in time of tofifufion and hurry, are all eir
cuniftauces of weight; and the premiums mull be
proportioned accordingly.
in. The following conditiont are to be under
stood hy the parties .
ift. The Insurance is net binding till tho ftipu
lateu premium he paid ; but it shall be deemed ef
fectual from the time of such payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
ad. Infuranees may ba renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without further ex
peafaa than the payment of tha premium of the re
newed term, the circumftanees continuing the fame
at they were anderftood by tha Insurers at tha time
the former insurance was mad* ; but the payment
of the premium is effientia! to fcch renewal; and
if the party insured faCfcrt any time to efapfe after
the expiration of the formes infarance, before be
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during fnch time ; nor can the insurance be renew
ed an the former policy but by computing the
commencemenU>f the renewal from the expiration
of the former Tnfnrance. The fubjefi of insur
ance may nevertheless be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other inAirance bentadeon the fame
property ; it must be made known at the time of
application, otherwifa the policy made on such ap
plication will ba void.
4th Goods held in trull, or on consignment,
may bo insured at such in a separate policy ; but
they are not to be considered as insured otherwise.
sth. This company will not be liable or accoun
table for any loft or damage occafionsd by any for
eign invaflsn, or by apy military or nfarped force,
or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aauafortit or other thing of the
like kind kept in the eailding, or amoagft the pro
perty inftrcd.
4th. Bills as Exchange, Bonds aad other Secu
rities, Title Deads, Money, Bank and other pro
miffery Notes, are not included in any infarance ;
nor are paiatiogt, medals, jewels, gems, aatiqae
curiofitict, or mirrort exceeding thevalae of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as iafurcd un
less particularly mentioned and by fpecialagree
mcat.
7th. No iafaranca will bt made for a shorter
term than one year, nor for a longer teraa than se
ven years. Pcrfons choofiag to infaro for seven
years shall ba allowed one year's premium by way
of difeouat: One third of a years premium shall
be abated w like manner on an infuraace for
three years.
Bth. Loflaa faltained by fire en property insured,
fltall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and ii- |
qaidatioa thereof, without dedudtioa.
A defer iptioa of the property to be iafarod will
ba sxpe&ed with each application, to be made by
a master carpenter and signed by him, at well as
by the owner of tha building or applicant for in
farance, and attefled before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowleage of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpea to Hcuf,j anlnhtr Buildings,
lit. The site and pofiti. n ; describing the
street or road on or near which the building
flaods , itacontiguity to water, aad ether cir
eumftancea relative to the e*tinguifltmeatof fire
in cafe of aecident; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are eftablilhed, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbor hood.
*d. Ihe materials ef which it ia built, whe
ther of brick, (tone or wood, aad what part of
each, at well at to theoutfide walls aa infideor
partition walls, and the r relpeclive height and
thickness ; the style of the reof and of what
materials ; how secured by battlements or par
ty walls j what kind «f access to the top of the
house and t« the chimniea 1 whether aay aad
what eledtric rods ; the number and kind of
ire places j aad the kind of deposit for athes.
3d. The dimensions of the building aad how
I divided, and the style in which it is finilhed so
at ta enable indiffereut perfont to judge in what
manner it is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the age and condition of tlie building
and how occupied, whether merely at a dwel
ling house, or for any other, aad for what par
pefe , also an estimate of the value of the koule
or buildmg independent of the ground.
4th- Ti.efituation with refpedl to other buildi
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at least one hundred feet
cich way : what kind of buildings arc within
that diftaace, how bi;ilt, of what materials, and
how occupied or improved, whether a* dwel
hags for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and what trade or manufactory it car
ried on, and particularly whether there be any
extra hazerdoiU articles used, or usually depo
sited in the heufe, or within the diilance afore
faid, and of what kind.
Refpefling gotJt in Houses, Warehouses, &c.
J. A general description of the building in
which they are kept will be expefled, Gmilar i,
all refpeds.at to tne danger from fire, with that
felve's lßfurlnte buildings them
t. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in calks or o'her packages
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
ptecet or in th. usual form for retailing. And
it the goods vary materially in kind, a general
efumate of the value of oech kind proposed to
n cfs of <lefcription i« no« dctm .
*. Articles of the roi degree*,
ed extra haaardous, be placed, viz.
in whatever bnilding ibty oil,
pitch, tar, turpentine* \ernn, flax, cotton,
inflammable fpint§, {up ' J. opened- —
-ry g»d. of an m*£ lly »«-
Oh", chma wire or awceiara. r- d all a .
xs^^zi&ssz
the application contain an only, it
bt am wered.
Br or«kf of the Boird,
EBENE2ER HAZARD*
Office Of the Infararoe Company effort* 7
Pbilad. Feb. I, »79«- i
Feb. 14- r
Ho-afe and Lots, in Borde f °™"\
-TO BE SOLD, a handsome two story .joufe,
X with the Lot on which i« «• cre&e< >
ed about the rmddle of tbe heam.W and heal.hy
Village of Bordentown. The houle i y
two L in front, £
contain, one acre, u* w , rh thr fame
£*? tolckflreet.
taining nearly four acres, fcparattd from the
SmJ by back street. One third only of the
purchase money will be required -
jng a deed, and for the remainder, ft. cred t
be given as the purch.fer may < bu.e.
property will be fold free of all ir.«uß%rance.,
and an indisputable title given
For further particulars enqu.reeither of Dr.
William Burne«, refidnig in Bordentown, near
the premises, who JcnZ
PETER THOMSON, (
Conveyancer, No. t}, Mulberry-street.
Boston Glass Manufactory.
THE citizens of the United States are hereby
informed, that the m»nufaA«r. of Window
Glaft i« sow ccirmcnced at the Glass Houft in
B It is needkfs to fay any thing of the excellent
quality of the Boft-n Glaft, as it is so well known
throughout the United States to be m every rcf
pe& greatly superior to any ever imported from
It will he cat to any size commonly used ; and
may be constantly had by applying to Chatde, F.
Kupfer, at the Glass House. tJ ' ,
Orders from the distant States t® be addrsned to
Mr. Ssmmtl Gere, Court-ftroet, Boston.
Two or three good Glass makors ai« want
ed at the above works; fnch is can produce re
commendations for good behavior, may b« sure of
employ, by application to Mr. George L% Lindt, at
the workt. Men withont families will b« pre
ferred. However unacquainted with th* method
of waking Crown Window Glass, they will meet
with tha fame encouragement.
Bofion, January 16 1' —lawfiw
i NiwTtri, February, I 79 8 -
PROPOSALS™ GEORGE FO RMAN,
i roa rtiKTiHi bt s«*scriftion,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix m*nth»—entitled
PROOFS of a CONSPIRACY agaiaft
all the Religions and Governments of EU
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings of Free
Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. Col
lected from good authorities,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. *.
¥rtft£er *f Natural PhiUfophy, and Secretary It tie
Seyal Surety of Edinburgh.
Nam tea ret agitur partee cum proximat arid.
0" THIS work will he put to preft as soon as
400 fuhferibers are obtained, and no money requir
ed until the is completed.—lt (hall be print
ad with an elegant new type, and on paper of su
perior quality, which will comprift about 400
pages neat odtavo, handsomely bound and lettered
—the price Will be one dollar and fifty cents.
Thofa who procure t} fabferihers, and become
accoantable, mall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to bookfellera.
%• Tar above work cosacs from the pen of J.
Robifon, of Edinborough, a gentleman in high
estimation ia the literary world—tha l'a<ss therein
recorded are well substantiated, and thereafoning
and argument thence deduced, while they difce
ver the foand jadgaaent and penetration of rhe
writer, are calculaced to amuse *1 well at to in
ftruifl. A scene of villainy is developed by the
author fufficieiit to appal the stoutest heart.—The
danger to be apprehended from secret focietias is
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human fu
ture awfuUy illuftratad, and the hazard of every
deviation from the ftratght path of reJigion and
of virtue, incontedibly proved both to the politi
cian and the christian by stubborn and incontro
vertabla fi&t.
t+t Suifcripti—e tale* in iy G. Forman, No. 46,
IVilliam-jireet, oppefite the Poft-Ofluf, and by the re/pec
Ine hccifcclUrr in Nm-Teri and Philadelphia.
February 18.
, Ntvj-York, January n, I*9B
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
t Proprietor of the Seading Room ;
For Publi<hing bf Subfcriptian,
An Appeal to lmoartial Posterity,
By Madameßoland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior inFrance.
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuable Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in a
vois. of 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
.type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bound
and lettered, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
ume-one third of iheSi bfcription money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
niaiuder when the work is compleat.
To Prihters, Bookfcllers, and otheri, who
acquire Subfcriptiens, the usual allowance will
be made.
£JT Subfcriptiom are taken at the Heading
Room, No. 149, Water street -the Printing-
Offiee, 149, Ptarl-ftreet—and at the different
Bookstores in New-York- Also, by William
Young, corner f Second and Chefnut street, nd
' h , e , E . d "° r . of the Gaiettc of the United States,
rhiladelpkia.
As f..cm as a fuffic'.ent number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will he put to press, and
compleated with the utmost dispatch
Frh - "• eodim
For Sale,
A good situation for a Country Sbat,
wfhin R """ of I,u<l on the old York Road,
W'thin fight of Ger nan town and about fiv. mile,
rom the City, the whole being under go»d fence
and in excellent order as pasture ground. '
For further information and terms, apply to
Jonn Eluqtt CRass°M, at hi. office for the
High-firMt. Conreyancinj, 4cc. No.v,,
ad no. «6*. „ WIW
treasury department,
1 lv MARSH 1, 179&.
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN,
r«_ Ia „f Ceoercf, massed on the fi«h day of July one th.ufand fevea hundred at<
iH ptsrfuanea of the A« *| | a F oa Stamped Vellum, Parchment and Paper", and the
ntaety-feven, e>Mtlea " December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-fevea, eatitkd
A a passed 011 tf ' c si , . limited time ch« commencement of the duties imposed by the Ad enti.
" AnAa topoftppneto gMmpe d Vellum, Parchment and Piper", that from and after
tW "An Aft laying j ; , verll i :anj?c d Duties htrer.ftsr enumerated, wiU be levied afld
SS'kK"
n • , r.irre ©f Vellum or Parchment, or fceet or piece of Paper, «pon which &all t*
For every fki«i» JP f iu ft rumeut s or writingslollawing—to wit :
written or printed any or euuer o
An» C"tiß"te cf the admiffioe,enrolment er registry of 5
A 7nvScUorSucitor, Attorney, Advocate or Profl.r, m any Court of the
United States, c " ert iS rat e m any "one of the Courts of the United States
Pr Z± of Lfaid Oicc,, (h.all so far a. relate, to the payment of the v
Sav "orejaiu", .be a efficient aclmiffion i» all the Court, of the United
e » tArfi' K ind'cvtrv of the f3id (uiiccs*
Auv Ortnt oi' Letters Patent, under the seal or authority of the United State.
/vr,nt Tor landi cranted tor military services) - - 4
A iv e"empUficatioH or certified copy of any fuck grant or letter, patent, (ex
cept for laud, granted for military ferv.ces) - - »
• V,rtv Bottiinry, or Refpondentia Bond, - 1
JSSSt*- t ' ,fcharge oror on accountef anyLcgacyleft by any Will or .-
tU Samentary inllrument, or for any (hare or part of a personal estate d.
•jL hv force ot any statute of diftr'Cbutions, other than to the Wife, Chil
drenorkrand Ch.ldren of the person dcceafed.the amount whereof (hall be
above the value of Fifty Dollars, and shall not exceed the value of One Hun
w'h« theSunt thereof (hall*exceed the value of One Hundred Dolkr. and * 5
shall not exceed Ave hundred dollars, -
And for every further sum of Five Hundred Dollar., the additional furo of t
\»v Policy of Insurance or inflrsment in nature thereof, on anyfhip, veflel or
/ood. infnred from one diftrifl to another in the United State., »5
From the ijnited Sute. to any foreign port or plaee, when the futn for whu.ii
Insurance is made (hall not .exceed five hundred dollars, - 50
When the Win infnred ftiall exceed five hundred dollar., - t
Apv Exemplification, of wlntniture fosiver, that (hall pas. the seal of any
Court, other thap I'uch a. it may be tie duty of the Clerk of such Court to
fumifhfor the use of the United States or fonje particular slate, - 50
Any bill single or penal, foreign or inland bill of exchange, proKiifTory
note or other note, other than any recognizance, bill, bond, or other obliga
tion or contrail, made to or with the United State, or any state, or for their
use refpeflively, " " "
]( above twenty dollar, and not exceeding one hundred dollars, • 10
If above one hundred dollar, and not exceeding five hundred dollars, aj
If above five hundred dollar, and not exceeding one thonbnd dollar., Ja
And if above one thoufind dollar*, - - - - " 75
Provided, that if any bonds or note, (ball be payable at or within Gxty day»,
such bonis-or note. Oral] be fubjcA to only two fifth parts of the duty
aforefaic!—viz. - - * ~ • <
Tf above twenty dollar, and not exceedinj one hundred doHar., • 4
If above one hundred dollars and not exceeding five hundred doll** s, l 0
If above fiv« hundred dollars and not exceeding one thonfand dollars,
If above one thousand dollars, - 30
Any Note, illhed by the banks now established, or that may hereafter be eftab
lilhed within the' United States, other than the no'« of such of the said Bank,
a. shall agree t* an annual competition, of one per centum on the annual di.
vidend. made by such Banks, to their Stockholder, rclpedively, according to
the following scale. *
On all note, not exceeding fifty dollars, for each dollar, - (1
On r.ll note, above fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hand red dollar.,
Cn all notes above one hundred dollar* and not exceeding five hundred
dollars, - • ... j
On all notes above fiye bnndred dollars, - - a
Any Protest or other Notarial aift, - " • *5 .
Any Letter of Attorney, except for an invalid penfioa, or to obtain or fell War
rants for Land granted by the United State* a. bounty for aailltary services
performed in the late war, - - • • «5
Any Certificate or Debenture for drawback of Cuftoaii or duties, for left than
five hundred dollars, - - - - » . I
For five hundrod dollars and not exceeding two thousand dollars, »
For more than two thousand dollar., ... j
Any not* or bill of lading for good, or merchandire to be exported,
If from one ditriiS to another diftrivfl of the United States, not being in the
fanae State, • • * 10
If from the United State* to any foreign port or place, - is
Any Inventory or Catalogue of any furniture, goods or effe<sa, made in any
ease required by law, (exeept in cafe* of goads and chattel, distrained for
rent or tax**, and-joods- taken in virtue of any legal process by any officer,) 50
Any Certificate of a Share ia any Insurance Company, of a (hare in the Bank of
the United Itates, or of aßy State or other Baak,
If above twenty dollars and aot exceeding one hundred dollar*, - ;lo ~r
If above one knndfid dollars, * / * * %f
If under twenty dollar*, at the rate of ten cents for on* hundred dollar*.
11.
The duties aforef aid will be colle&ed and received by the Supcrrifors, lnfpe&ors and othef Ofßwr.
of InfpeAion, is the several Diftri&s, Snrveya and Divisions of the United States, and by such other
p»rfons as shall from to time be fpecklly appointed and employed by the SupcrvifoM of Dnlr. iii for
that purpose.
111.
The Supervifers of the; several Diftrids will, prior to the firft day of July ensuing, and a. soon as
may be pra<3icaHe. mark or stamp, without fee or reward, any quantities or paraelsof Vellum, Parch
ment or Paper, with any of the rates of duties before enumerated, on payment of the said duti.s j Or
ftamp«d vellui*, parchment andpapor r..av at the option of the Citiiens of the United States, be ob
tained at the rates prcfcribed by law, fcy application to any Sup'ervilor, InfpeSor, Officer of InfpMtow,
or other par ton appoiatcd for the distribution of Stamps, by the Supervifor.of Diftrids.
GIF EN under my Haud, at Philadelphia
the day and year nbewentntined.
OLIVER WOLCOTT,
March TO. Secretary of the Trufury.
NOTICE.
ALL persons who have any demands agaiuft
th« estate of Wiliih Fm (wtoob, of
Liverpool, lat: of Philadelphia, trerchwnt, de
ceifed, are requcfcej to exhibit th<ir accounts,
properly attffted ; and those who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, to
GEO. DOBSON, 7
No. i S , So. Third-street. 5 M - ,n i* r r
Jaauary 4. dtf
Just Published,
And to he had at th« Book-(lores of Messrs. Dob
son, Camps ill, Youno and Okmrod,
in Philadelphia,
OBSERVATIONS
Oa the Causes and Cure of Remitting er Bilious
Fevers.
T( which it annexed,
AN ABSTRACT of the op niom and practice of
different authors: and an APPENDIX, exhib
iting intsrefting (*£tt and refiediont relative to
the Synechia IBtrcidu, or Yellow Fever, which
ha« otcafined so much diftrefi and mortality,
at different periods, in several of the seaport
towns of rh« llnitfd States of America.
by WILLIAM CURRIE.
Falow of the Philadelphia College of Phyficiant,
and Member of the American PhiUiophicai So
ci »tT- Feb. 1—
For falc or to be let on ground
rent,
A valuable Lot of Ground ;
SITUATE on the north-east corner of Wal
nut and Fifth flreets, fruiting the State-
Hi use square This lot is fifty-one feet front
on V alnut street, and one hundred and thirteen
feet aud an half on Fifth street ; there are at
I present two small two story brick houses, and a
number of small tenements thereon. 1
r _ Alfa, far Sale,
Two three story Brick Houses
With convenient flo/es, wharf, G'uar* on
Water street, between Mulberry an-1 SafTafras
Streets containing in front on Water street fif
ty-four feet, and containing thatbfeadth east
ward |unety-five feet, then widening to the
south thirteen feet fix inches. These houses
have the convenience of a public alley adjoin
ing on the north fide, and area very defirablefit
uatio* for a a merchant, flour faflor, or others
who may have occasion f6r storage of govds.
This property will be fold on very reafon»b!e
terms for cash. For further information apujy
to the printer.
J U| T J*. • rnkMf
Salifbviry Estate.
THE Subscriber, propofioj to contraA hii boi»
ness, offers this Eftjte for Tale, on modetat*
terms. On it are one Blast and tbret Air Furnacss,
a complete Boreing Machine, and a very goad grill
Mil I, with two pair of lionet; alio a good Forge, all
in pcrfeft repair, as are all the Water Works connsfl
ed with these various branches. The Air Furiuccs
were lately built for Uk purpose of calling Cannon
for this State.—There are abou two thousand aerai
of Land, one half of ivliich isundei wood, ttwothw
very fine arable Land, producing the bed Hay an#
Pasture. The Cannon lately mannfatlared there,
fully proves the excellency of the metal, which it
luperior to any in this country, and probably, eqaal
to aay in the world ; for not one of fixty-iine J»n»
lately made, althnugh some of the 14 were bor«4
into 32 pounders, have failtd on proving. The situ
ation is very eligible, particularly for this braoch of
manufacture, aad a place ot arms lying in the state
of Connecticut.and ouly go miles from several land*
ings on the Hudson's 1 iver, and having every advan
tage that can rctult from a plenty of water iffoing
from a large natural pond, very near the Furnace,
and whkh may be converted into a variety of other
uleful purpofei. Ihe purcnafer can be accommodsU
ed with all the stock and iltenfils, and have pofleffiun
on or betore the firtt of June next, and preparation
may be made in the mbanume for going into Blast im
mediately thereafter, for every pait will be delivered
in good order, with forae coal, Ore, Ac. Ac. F<*
terms, apply to Mr. Joseph Anthony, in Philadel
phia ; David Brooks, E'q. one of the Representative'
in Congress lor this State ; Mr, David Waterman, ot
the premises, or totheproprietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEII-SON.
Dee. i. 3awtf
NOTICE.
A Manufaftory of yellow and delft ware,
Such as never was in this Country before hat been
been lately erefted at Ti?oii, Red Hook l*odin%s
on the East B*nk or Hudfon'a River, ft»'e ew "
York,
may be executed, as well as up«« «
ntw coiftru&ion. that saves three fourth* of thctutt
commonly used in c.aft iron flovc* or chymjii« #
they . fides very wholesome and ornamental, 1
""""" J. MOUCHET.
Wanted a fkillful baud to atteod to the bskinf aa
glazing part of the said wara. Generous
meats will be given. Apply aaaboie, or to
DAVID BROOKS, Esq.
No. 71 South s<h Street.
Feb. ifl. __ «»*«* ,
Wanted, to Hire,
ALarjfe aad cenvenient'HOUSK, »n or rr&
the certtreof the city—lor which a generous
rem will be given; to be taken for a year, or ofl
more for a lender term. Imanireof the Printer,
oa. i 7. «*