JUST RECEIVED,
AND FOR SALS, AT
W. Young's Book-store,
Corner of Chefnnt and Second ft rents,
( Fried JO Cents J
Ca«fes «jui fe font oppofees aux
Progre> <to commerce, nitre Li FKANCEet lei
. K f A rj-UMS de L'AMERIqUE.
Avee lei Moyens de L'accelerer ;
Et la comparaifon de la Dettc Nationale
de rAngleterrc, de la France, and des
ETATS-UNIS.
In fix Lettres, addreflae* a Monfieurlc Mar
quis ds la Fayette. Traduitjur le Ma
nufcrit Anglais du Colonel SWAN, ancien
Mcnbre de la Ligtflature dela Reptiblique
du Mafiachuffet.
Le Comm.rce eft laportionU plus importante des
(Richeffes Nationales.
LeTridentdeNeptune.cftlefceptredu Monde.
Lkmisii,
Or cautes that have been opposed to the
PROGAFSS of between
FRANCE and the UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
Witn the means of accelerating it;
And a. companion of the National Debts
of England, France, and America.
In Six letters, directed to the Marquis
be la Fayette.
Tranflatrd (into Fnnoh from the original Eng
li(h Maiiui'crirt of Col. Swan, forihcrly a Mem
ber ef the 1 .egiflature of Massachusetts.
Ommerco i» the molt important portion of the
Wealth of Nationa.
1 he trident of Neptune it the Sceptre of
the world. Limieu*.
AT a juncture when the question of
a Commercial Treaty tvitb France may soon
become an objeft of difeuflion, a work of this kind
becomes extremely ufeful to those citizens of tht
United States, who may be defiroiu to enable them-
Tclves to view thi9 fubje<ft, under its various af
pe<Ss ; and they will have the falisfadion to be
furnilhed with the necessary data, to judge of the
vfefulnefs of this tranfaflioo.
'lhia work ia principally diftinguilhed by the
richntfs of the observations, the perfpi.uity of th«
i.'cas, and the raodefty of the theory which it
contains. -*t Pars, a man of wit ebferved, that
this work was like a rich farmer's barn, heaped up ■
to the very roof with ufeful produce. It is addref ■
fed te the unfortunate La Fat*tti, in letters,
which fugitive fo'm, the author who could only
devoteafew weekstothis occupation, was obliged
to adopt. Although eircumUane-ss at* in many
refpe&s different at the present day, from what
thty we»e in the year 1790, when thefii letters
were written, yet it may be justly said.that so ma
lty abfoluteand permanent data Hill remain, that
the judicious reader will not appreciate the work
lesson that account ; on the contrary, as many of
the alteration*, which have been made, are the re
fcilt of the author's remarks, it will fcrve 10 con
vince him that in all tranfa&ioi.s, between free
nations, every thing maybe expeiled from the ef
forts of truth andjuflice.
LETTER I.
General view of the obftacles,'created in France,
to ptevent the extension of commerce, with the
Uni'-ed Stat s—Obfenratiens made in a tour, taken
for that express purpose, upon iome French manu
factures (a precious fragment this). Examination
an'j r u'.ation ot the prejudice! exifling in France,
agvi' 1 tile quality of certain produiflions of the
United States, and .again!) the advantages of their
importa-ion—Uemonllradon of the bad policy of
laying duties oh their importation, principally on
™-ovifious in gener> 1, and on fait provilions, and
filh in pa titular—Coofiderations 011 the regulations
of the Frenchcu.'om-htMifes.
LETTER 1!.
Obllaclcs to the extension of trade with Fran:e,
proceeding from circumAar.eea and individuals m
the United States—Proofs that thefc obstacles are
only temporary and will be removed (they have
been ren'oved) by time and thi wifdpm of govern
ment—Hiitory.f the influence of the American
paper money—lmportant j rinciplos and a'ollra<3
eonliderations on moncy-and circulation—Causes
of the Hagnation cf merican trade, after the
peace—Critical examination of French .oods, im
ported into America, and extraordinary conduct
of the French merchants—Effeds of good com
mercial laws; a id patriotic wifheaon t>his fubjeil—
Obfcrvations on money weights and nicafures.
LE l"T IK IM.
iffayin the for™ • t a tiiilcau, to appraise the im
poi tat ions into the United States si eri France and Eng
land un-tcd. The author examines at each article,
whether it can be better lurinllied from France or
England—lt ia [nincipally on this fubjeft (which
would haveall r >niihcd a nice th :orifl)tbat the author
appears to evince great commere i .1 experience. Thefc
kind of talUr.iix. uuluckily as difficult to obtain as
they >'e much to be deliied, a t the only sure guides
the llatefman can take for the policy of treaties, de
prived of which he ia continual ly deceiving or decei
ved. Wecannottoo much at 1 mire the apparent ex
aftnefs of colonel Swan's calcu lationi ; and ati hough
the proplieftea of LoTd Shcffi eld have alieady been
eontradified by experience, «r ul by feverai able pens,
yet itiscntious to fee the iar of the prelent work,
dispute with him the only grnurd on which he has
not been hitlierto attacked, by proving that Fiance,
under the required conditio a, will he better able
than Gieat Britain to supply ' js with ftveral articles,
which the Enjlifh authoi alio a exclusively and forev
er to the latter i the author' , fwttility njjcS on (if he
has any) doea nut appear to have at any time created
a partiality «fjudgment. The rcfult of this calculation
ia that in 1789, that is to !:»y, ata period wlien arts
and manufaflures did sot present in France the vsft
means aud probability of extension which they now
poflefs. lhat even in 17?#), it waa presumable, that
France would not only have the means 10 supply one
ba'if of »nv given aisanti .y of the produftions of France
end f ngland united, but.alfoto enter into competition
with Great Uiiuin fov the remainder, in pioportion
to the Wildom of be>» govcrmnent, and the industry
of her inhabitants. /
VETTER IV.
Calculation of t'tie exportation of the United States,
ind particular e-jaminaiion of their fuitablenefa to
France; thia ia c«e reason why, notwithflanding the
excell-nt wotk 'kf Mr. Tench Coxe, Mr. Swan's tn-
UMai 11 by "o infant (upeifluwu . the principle of the
tdvantagts which v.- uld rcfult to France from the
importation{ provifiomar.d raw materials, it every
where applied; and it ia upon thu argument, that
the author eClablifhea his demands to the French go
vernment, for the limited admiiHoa of the produc-
Honsot hia country in»o Frwce.
LEiTtK. V.
Tableau, of the debt of the United States at that
time—Opinions of the author ootne finaocrs, on the
jeffeftsof national debt, on circulation, See. as more,
aaiply detailed in his National Arithmetic printed at
Boston in the year 1786 ; the whole lo
strengthen in France, thcjmbl c and private credit
of the United State* —theliappy condition of Ameri
ca, and the mifcries anting from the public debt in
Europe, are coatrafted in the ablest manner, and un
der the noil Ariking ielatU»ns, by very cu ious cal
eulations—'Observations on the wisdom and economy
which preside «ver the public expenses in Maftachu*
setts. In this place the patriotifni of the author ap
pears, with all the elevation which ajoft national
pride ioipircs. The ancient government* of Europe,
lays he, will learn from us the art ot economy in
rccompenfingthefeivices which the country receives;
Jmongjl us U will be fan % that men are chojen Jot placet,
and n*t pieces for men. This letter coi»eiu<l«s with a
general view o! the public pioperty, deposed ia tiie
hands of the covcrt ment of the United States.
LETTER VI.
General examination of the defefts of the commer
cial policy of France with refpeft to the United States;
many of tnefe observations have produced the effc&s
for which they were iotended f otlicTS QiU remain
out the refoims to be made in future, as •
6 cod chart insiki the fheals and rocks, The author
eonclades his work, by fixing his attention on hi*
country, and the great men who have rendered it il
lustrious: and we take a pleasure in quoting what he
fiys of the pref«-nt chief of our government. To
praise a man when he,evercifes a distinguished em
ployment, is common, and may be taken for flattery ;
but whiift he is io private lite, it is the homage of
fwceiity.
Note, page 316 of the work,
* Les hatiitans des Ktats-unis, fuivant daivs leur
choix le burn public, dc excites par un principe de
reconnoiiTanee, rhoifirent M. John Adams pour vice
preOdent du nouve«u congres. Ses efforts, pour pre
server le peuple des intrigues formees par 1c gouv
fnien ent Anglais contre fa liberte, le rendirent tres
fufpetl a ceux qui etoient en pouvoir Le pruple,
convdincß dc son merite, le choifit pour un dc fes
reprefentans dans le premier congtts. De cc nombra
etoir aufii M. Samuel Adams, pairiote aufli intrepide,
qu'in'ang««b!e. La revolution Americaine doit beau
coup a la perfevcrance de fes travaux, & a fes talens
diflinges. Cenx que M. John Adams a developpes
dans le traite de paix, qui s'eft fait a Paris en 1783,
ont prouve qu'il etoit mimftrc aufli habile que grend
po uique. Et aans son ouvrage fur la defease de la
conftituiion il a montae toutes lescan
aoitTances qui forment lea vrais jurifconfultes &. les
hommesde loij connoiflances necelfaires, pour rem
plir hanorablemcnt les de president du fenat
des E:ats-unis.
' ; ITOT TIC E.
A AlanufaStry cf yellow and delft -ware,
Such as never waa in this Country before, has been
been lately ere&ed at Tivoli, Red Hook Landing,
onthe Eaii Bank of Hud ton's River, Ihf of
York, where any article of vaiious sons and shapes
may be executed, as well as earthcrn Roves upon a
new eonfttuftion, that saves three fouiths of the fuel
commonly used in cast iron lloves or open chvmnies;
they are bcfides very wholesome and ornamental, by
applying to
J. MOUCHET,
Wanted a fkillful hand to attend to the bakinp and
glazing part of the said ware. Generous appoint,
ments will be given. Apply asab we, or to
DAVID BROQKS, Elq.
No. 71 South jth Street.
Feb. eod4w
To Be Sold,
AGREEABLY tothclaft will and teftamentof
William Hftsham, deceaCed, and pofTef
fioa givMi immediately, a valuable property in Arch
flreet, between Third ar.d Fourth streets, confid
ing of the house, No. 107, with the lot on which
it is erecited, a (table, and other improvements.—
TheVoufe is 10 feet front, and contains ten good
apartments. The lot is ef the fame breadth as the
house and 209 feet deep, with a well of water and
a very capacious walled cistern, both with purnpa
in gonp repair. The liable (lands en the rear of
the lot and will accommodate four horfcs and a car*
riage. This property enjayathe pftpetual privilege
of a t6feet court and an alley, 8 feet wide,extend
ing to Cherry Street. Its central pofitien and the
advantages it poflefTca with relpe<st te free ventila
tion, renders it well worthy attentio.i sf any
pcrfen wlfhing to po/Tefa an eligible property hi Phi
ladelphia,
For further particulars enquire at No SB, Vtr.c
Street—of
Rgbert Hztsham,
or > Adlinj Executors.
Francis Bowks Sayri, )
January II J
NOTICE.
ALL pcrfona who have any demands against
the estate of Willam Flfewtood, of
Liverpool, late of Philadelphia, merchant, de
ceased, arc requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly attefled; and thofc who are indebted
to the fame, are desired to make immediate
payment, te
GEO. DOBSON, I A . in:/l , r
No. a 5, So. Third-ftrect. 5 Adm,ni J lr r
January 4. dtf
Ran away from the Subscriber,
On the 24M January tail,
A Black Woman, named -Zelime.
SHE is o( a middling sized ftaturc, thick lips,
marked with th? small pox in the face—She
1 carried off a v undle of linen with her. Whoever
takes her up and brings her to the fubferiber, at
No 181, Arch-ftrcet, corntr of Fourth-street,
(hall receive two Dollars reward
J. I.AZELLES.
N, B. Whoever harbors f id Girl aiter this no
tice, (hall be pr.fecuted to the severity of the law.
Februaty 10.
New-York, January 24, 1798'
PROPOSALS
By Arondt Van Hook,
Proprietor of the Reading Room ;
For Ptiblifhing by Subfeription,
An Appeal to Impartial Posterity,
By Madame Roland ;
Wife of the Minister of the Interior in France-
CONDITIONS.
These scarce and very valuible Historical Me
moirs, (which ran through two London edi
tions in a few months,) will be comprised in 2
vols. o(S)avo, ol 400 pages each.
They will be printed on fine paper and a new
type, and delivered to Subscribers, neatly bouhd
and letteied, at 1 dollar and 50 cents per vol
ume—one third of the Sublcription money tobe
paid on delivery of the firft volume—the re
mainder when the work iscompleat.
To printers, Booksellers, and others, who
acquire Subscriptions, the ulual allowance will
be made.
£s* Subscriptions art taken at the Reading
Room, N». 149, Water street—the Printing-
Offiee, 149, Pearl-street—and at the different
Bookstores in New-York Also, by William
Young, cerner f Second and Chefnut street, rnd
the Editor of the Gazette ef the United States,
Philadelphia.*
As soon as a fufficient number of Subscribers
are obtained, the work will be put to press, aid
compleated with the utmost dispatch.
Feb. ao. eodam
PROPOSALS,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTIOI\
A NEW ANO INTERESTING WORK, ENTITLED,
A TREATISE
ON THE POLICE OF LONDON,
Containing a detail of the various crimes and *vif
demeanors, by which public an-d private proper
ty, arc, at present, injured and endangered :
And iuggefiing remedies forthcir prevention.
BY A MAGISTRATE,
A&ing for the counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent,
aud ElTex ; for the city and liberty of Weftmin
ftcr ; and for the liberty of the Tower of Lon
don.
CONDITIONS.
This work will be printed in a Jorge o&ave, on
an excellent Engiifh paper—lt will be delivered to
fubferibers, bound in boards, at the moderate price
of One Dollar and a half; although the la It London
edition, on inftrior paper and meanly bounjJ, re
l now fold at *wo dollars and a half. "To non-fub
fcrfbers the price will be raised.
Whatever encouragement may be given by sub
scription, it will We committed to the j*«fs without
delay ; and, birring accidents, will be roady for
publication early m April.
£s* f nbfcriplioin will be thankfully received at
Benjamin Daviess's book-ftoie, No 68, High
ftreet, aod by inofi of tha other booksellers is the
city ; by George Hill, in Baltimore; anil by Sam
uel Campbell, and A. Drun.mond, in New-York.
Jacuary 31. aav.tA
PROPOSALS,
ir th»
Insurance Company tf North Anierica.
For Insurance against Fin, on Dwnllihg-
Houses, Ware-Houses, and other Buildings (and
on Oood* contained in such Building*) diflant from
Philadelphia, in the United States.
1. Common fufurancei, on hazards of the firft
class, will be undertaken at a premium of sfliout
half per cent, per annum. For extra hazardous
rifques a larger pretr i*m will fce required, which
will vaiy according to circumstances, fcidom ex
ceeding one per cent, per annum ; but in some in
stances, where the property insured is not only in
itfrlf extra hazardous, but rendered still more To
by th: vicinity of extra hazardous buildings and
occupations, the premium demanded will be railed
according to eircumftacces.
Houses and Ware-Houses, the walls and parti
ti«ris of wkich are wholly of /tone or briqlc, well
cunllrufled, i'o as to b» guarded as well as may be
against fires from within, and tree l'rom extra ha
zardous buildings and occupations in their neigh
borhood, will be deemed hazardous of the tiril
class, a>id may be insured to their full value.
Also Goods and Merchandize, not oi an extra
hazardous kind, in casks. bales, or pack-agos, de
pofirtd in such buildings, to an amount not ex
ceeding 4000 dollars ; but if more' than thisfnm
is required to be insured in one tenement, an addi
tional premium will be required, in proportion to
circumllances.
11. Infursnces will also be made on buildings and
goods extra hazardous, at premiums proportioned
to tha risque. But it is not easy to arrange these
under particular heads or daffes, so as to defctibe
each with the ncceflary accuracy. Each east mufl
■ therefore be decided upon according to the cireum
ftances attending it; and these circumftaiiecs wili,
in general, appear from the defcriptioli accor-ip*-
uying the application.
Buddings partly eonftniifted of brick or stone,
are preferable to those wholly wooden. And in
both cases, the stile of building, how they are oc
cupied, how they are fitutted, the neighboring
hiildings, and how occupied, are considerations to
be taken into view. And withrefpeft to goods,
their tendsncy, whether from their nature, or
•from the niantur in which they arc exposed, either
to commence or to increase an accidental fire, and
their liability in such state to receive damage by
wet, or by fvddcn and hasty removal, or to be fl.o
len in time of confufion and hurry, are all cir
cumstances of weight ; and the premiums muil be
proportioned accordingly.
111. The following cenditiont are to be und«r
ftood by the parties.
i(l. The Infnrance is not binding till the ftipa
lated premium be paid ; but it (hall be deemed ef
fefiual from the time 0/ fueh payment and accep
tance thereof, whether the policy be immediately
signed or not.
»d. Insurances may be renewed at the expira
tion of the term of the policy, without farther ex
pcnfe« than the payment of the premium of the re
newed term, the circumllances continuing the sam«
as they were anderltood by the Infurrrs at the time
the former insurance was maAi ; but the payment
of the premium is fuch renewal ; and
if the party insured fuffers any time to elapse after
the expiration ef the former insurance, before he
pays a premium for the renewal, he is not insured
during such time; nor can the insurance be renew
ed on thd former policy but by computing the
commencement of the renewal from the expiration
of the former insurance. The fubjeft of insur
ance may neverthslefs be open to treaty for a new
insurance.
3d. If any other insurance be made on the fame
property ; it mufl be made known at the time of
application, otherwifc the policy made on fucji ap
plication will be void.
4th Goods held in trull, or on consignment,
■ay be insured as such in a separate policy} but
they are not to be considered as infuiedotherwife.
sth. This company will not be liable or accoun
table far any loss or damage occasioned by any for
eign invasion, or by any military or usurped force,
or by peafon of any civil commotion ; or occasion
ed by gunpowder, aquafortis or ether thing of the
like kind kept in the building, or amongst the pro
perty insured.
6th Bills of Exchange, Bonds and other Secu
rities, Title r>e ds, Money, Bank and other pro
mifTttry Notes, are not included in any insurance ;
nor are paintings, Ufdal«, jewels, gems, antique
curioGties, or mirrors exceeding the value of twen
ty-five dollars each, to be considered as insured un
less particularly mentioned and by special agree
ment.
7th. No insurance will be made for a ftorter
term than one year, nor for a longer term than fe
vea years. Persons choosing to insure for seven
years lhall be allowed one year's premium by way
of difeount: One third of a years preniium shall
be abated in like manner on an insurance for
three years.
Bth. LolTas sustained by fire on property inCured,
(hall be paid in thirty days after due prouf and li
quidation thereof, '.lithout deduction.
A defeription of the property to be infurod will
be ixpe&ed with each application, to be made by
a matter carpenter and fijned by him, as well as
Hy the owner of the building ot applicant for in
surance, and attested before a Notary or principal
Magistrate, who will certify his knowledge of the
parties and their credibility.
With refpe<st to Houses and other Buildings,
ift. The Cte aßd pofiti n ; describing the
street or road on or near which the building
ftand3 ; its contiguity to water, and other cir
cumllances relative to the extinguilhment of fire
in cafe of accident; and particularly whether
any and what fire companies are eftahli/hcd, and
engines provided,in the place or neighbour hood.
ad. The materials of which it is built, whe
ther of brick, ftoneor wood, and what part of
each, as well as to theoutiide walls as ipfideor
partition walls, and their refpeitive height and
thieknefs ; the style of the roof and of what
materials ; how secured by battlements or par
ty walls; what kind of access to the top of the
hoyfe and to the chimnies j whether any and
what ele&ric rode j the number and kind of
fire places ; and the kind of deposit for alhes.
3d. The dimensions of the building and how
divided, and the style in which it is finifhed so
as to enable indifferent persons to judge in what
manner ft is to be repaired or rebuilt in cafe of
injury ; the *ge and condition of the building,
and how occupied, whether merely as a dwel
ling house, or for any other, and for what pur
pefe , also an estimate of the value of the house
or building independent of the ground.
4tb. Tie situation withrefpefl to other build
ings or back buildings, whether adjoining or
not, comprehending at lealt one hundred feet
each way : what kind of buildings are within
that diflance, how bi ilt, of what materials,and
how occupied or improved, whether as dwel
lings for private families or otherwise : whe
ther any and.what trade or manufactory is car
ried on, and particularly whether there beany
extrahazardous articles used, or ufuilly depo
sited in the house, or within the diflance afore
fai-l, and of what kind.
Refpe«£ling goods in Houses, Warehouses, Btc.
I- A eeoeial description of the building in
wl.ich they are kept will beexpe&ed, (imilar in
all refp*<fts,as tothedargerfrom fire, with that
required for Infuranse on the buildings them
selves
2. A description of the kinds and nature of
the goods, whether in casks or other packages,
or opened ; and whether displayed in whole
pieces or in the usual form for retailing. And
if the goods vary materially in kind, a general
eftiinate of the value ef each kind proposed to
be insured j but in tTie last particular miwite
nefs of description is not expe&ed.
3. Articles of the following kinds are deem
ed extra hazardous, thnugh in vari"Us degrees,
in whatever building they may be placed, viz.
pitch, tar, turpentine, rol-n, wax, tallow, oil,
inflammable spirits, sulphur, hemp»flax, cotton,
dry goods of an inflammable kind opened.
Gljfi, china ware or porcelain, especially un
packed; Looking glasses, jewelery ; :;ndallo
ther articles mors than commonly inflammable,
or n ore than commonly liable to injury by sud
den removal or by moifluret, or particularly
obnoxious to thoft on an alarm of fire.
Letters pod p-iid, dii the Secretary of
the Board of Directors, will be duly attended
to. An order for Insurance accompanied by the
means of paying the premium, will be imme
diately ixeoifed on the premium beir>p paid. If
the application contain an enquiry 01.ly, it will
be answered.
By order of th, - Board,
EBENEZEK HAZARD, Sec'rj.
Off.ce of the Insurance Company of NortV
America ; Philad. Feb. I, 1798. 3
Felt. 14.
TO TH £ .
Citizens of the .United States.
THE Mifßanary Society of Fhiladelpl)ia % improv
ed with the importance of ameliorating the
condition and augmenting the liappinffs of man
kind, are impelled by motiv«s of re! gion and be
nevolence te attempt the propagation of christian
and civil knowledge among the aborigines of Ame
rica. 1
Those who experienced t*he bleflVd effe<sU
of real religion, a desire to difieminue
its principles, wherever the footftepaof a fellow
man may he found —An opportunity now offers,
for such to evince their fiwerity, by laboring to
gether in aacompliihing the ancient predidion-7
" The knowledge of thi Lord Jhall ewer the earth as the \
tva en do the fei».*'
Living in an age when the devaluations of war
teach us to appreciate and extend the blcflings <j(
peace, all good and enlightened citizens will con
cur with us, that every step which tends to intro
duce the arts of civilisation among the Indians,
rauft be highly favorable to the interest of the Uni
ted States.
The easy access which may be had at present to '
the different tribes, by means of government ef
tablifhmctits in various parts ef their territory—
their tranquil ilate, and the freindly difpofitien of
some of their chiefs—difpofe the Society to believe
that their arfdrcls is net premature. They presume
that nothing more is necessary to excite the atten
tion and fciure the fuppart of their fellow .citi
zens than to present their plan to the confederation
cf the public.
THE Subscribes, penetrated with a convic
tion that their duty and happiness are involved in
promotipg the knowledge and diffufing the spirit
of th*' t/hriflian religion, do aflociate for the pur
pose of fupportinga missionary among the Ameri
can Heathen and thq frontier fettlemer.ts of the
United States, as an eligible mean of accompliih
iiy so desirable an obje3.«— Aware of the perni
cious effedsof party spirit, they think it necessary
to adopt for their guide (as well as to exhibit to
the world the principles by which they will be
governed) the following
CONSTITUTION.
I. The association shall be called the Missionary St»
eiety, >
11. Any person signing the conttitution and paying
the sum of one dollar to the treasurer and the
further sum of one dollar yearly, is a member
daring the payment of his or her fubfenption.
11l Ihe lociety lhall ele»st by ballot an adling com
mittee to consist of a treasurer, secretary and se
ven members, one third of whom (hall be re
newed every fix months—five (hall form a quo
rum to tranfa& business and have power to call
special meetings.
IV. The focicty shall meet evi ry three months at
an appointed place to enatft the necessary laws
and deliberate on the report of the committee
refpe&ing the itate and progress of the institu
tion.
V. No missionary (hall be considered qualified who
is not capab'e of pra&ifing or teaching some ufe
ful art as well as a rational system of religion.—
No other tefi lhall be required, excepting, evi
dences of piety and zeal—that he renounce all
fe&arian names and adopt limply that of Chris
tian.
VI. Should the funds of the society permit, insti
tutions for inftrm&ing the Indians in the agri
cultural an 4 mechanical arts, shall be efiabliftied
among thsm.
VII. As soon as a fufiicient number have sub
scribed, the committee (hall puVlilh under their
infpe&ion a periodical, miscellany entitled the
11 Missionary *\ and the profits anting ,from the
sale (hall be applied to the funds of the society.
No alteration or amendment (hall be made
in the above conftiturion, without the confont of
two thirds of the members, and every such im
prove ment must be proposed three months prior to
itsdifcufiion
The conflitution is left for signatures at 177 S.
Second-street.
gy" The Little Turtle, one of the most influen
tial charavfters among .the Indians North Welt of
the Ohio (who is now in this city) is very anxious
to forward the view* of the society. The Inter
preter, capt. Wells, is also very fauguine a* to the
profpeit of success, and promises all the aid in his
power. February 24.
Bafkenridge—for sale
TT confide of 910 acres, ilmoft all of which is
a fino rich Meadow, (the reCdeneeof the late
Earl of Stirling). It may be conveniently dixided
into five farms, four of which arc bounded on the
East by the river Pafiiek.
Thi-re are on it a number of buildings, forming
afqJare of nearly three acres—The dwelling house
is a v«ry convenient one and a fmallexpence would
put it in complete repair.
The orchard eoniills of 1500 fintbearing engraf
ed Apple Trees—and there is on other pnrtsol said
trad near 300 other Apple frees—as also a great
varie'y of other fruits, particularly Cherries of the
bed and most delicious kinds.
Also, a great number of beautiful Exotics and
Forest Treos, that add to the beauty and conveni
ence of the place. Its situation is about 18 miles
from the towns of Newark and Elizabeth : 10 do.
from Morris-Town, and la from Springfield—lt
is wooded and watered.
To favc trouble, the price is five pound pr. acre
in caih, on delivery of the deeds. Please to en
quire of T. McEUEN & Co.
No. 78, Chefnut treet.
February a. codtf
COLUMBIA HOUSE
Boarding School for young Ladies.
MRS. GKOOMBKIDGE with much pleaf
ureand rtfpeifl, returns her sincere to
knowledgement for the liberal encouragement
she has received duririg four years residence in
Philadelphia; and allures her friends and ike
public, so far from intending to decline her
l'cliool. (he has ma 'e a superior arrangement for
the more convenient accommodation of her
scholars.—Every branch of ufeful and polite
educat : on is particularly attended by Mrs.
Groombrirlge and matters excelling in rtieir
refpeflive profefiions.
Corner of Spruce and Eleventh Street*.
June sth, 1797. Jimftf
The fitnation is perfe«Jlly healthy : and made
more agreeable by an extensive garden and lot
of ground adjeiniag the hotfe.
THIS DAY IS OPEMED,
And for laic by WILLIAM YOUI IG, No. s*,
corner of Second and Chefnut-ft reets,
In one large volume, S vo..
(Price of the common paper, neatly bound, 1 dollars 50
eenit ; fine ditto, Mr boards, 3 doll trs)
AMERICAN T GAZETirEER,
TV'XHIBIriNO, in alphabetical order, a much
1 j more full and accurate Account:, than has
bi en given, of the State*, Province!, Counties,
Cities, Towns, Villages, Rivers, Bays, Harbours,
Gulfs, Sounds, Capes, Mountains, Forts, Indian
Tribes, and New Pifeoverirs, on tVe AM LERICAN
CONTINENT, also of the Wist-Indi k lilands,
and other Iflasds appendant to the Conti l ent, and
thole newly discovered in the Pacific Oc. Lan : De
scribing tlvs Extent, Boundaries, Populati on. Gov
crnment, Prodililions, Commerce, Mantfafturcs,
Curiosities, &c. of the ieveral Countri-n_, and of
their important Civil Rivifions—and tine Longi
tude at.d Latitude, the Bearings and Distances,
from noted Places, of the Cities, Towns, and Vil
lages •, —with a particular Description of 'The Geor
gia Wefittn Territory. The whole comprising up
wards of Seven Thouland diftindt Articles^
Collected and compiled from the btfl. 'luthori
tie, and arranged with great care, by, tuvl under
the direction of
JEDIDIAH MORSE, d. ».
Author of the American Univcrfal Geography—
Fellow of the American Academy of -irtsand
Sciences—and Member nl th« MaffachufetUHif.
torical Society.
[lllluftrated with seven new and neat Ma;H.]
(Publijhod actoriing to aft of Congr*fs.)
Also. FOtC SALE, as above, *
Mr. Morse's Univertfal Geography,
In two large 8 vo. volumes, price 4 dels „$o cts*
Ditto, abridged, at I dollar.
February 26. e»4t
New-Terky February, 1798.
PROPOSALS by GEORGE FORMAN,
*OR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A New and Valuable Work, which has been ex
tant only fix months—entitled
PROOFS of a CONSPIRACY ajainft
all the Religions and Governments of KU-,
ROPE, carried on in the secret meetings oif Free
Masons, Illuminati, and Reading Societies. Col
lected from Rood authot itje-,
By JOHN ROBISON, a. m.
FroJ.VJtr of Natural Pbilrfopby, and Secretary U tic
Royal Soeiety of Edinburgh.
Nam tua res agitur paries cum proximus ardet.
THIS work will be put to prefsas Toon at
400 fubferihers are obtained, and no money requir
ed until the work is completed.— It shall be print
ed with an i legant new type, and on papeir of su
perior qualify, which will comprifi abtfut 400
pages neat oiiavo, handsomely bound and lettered
—tie price will be one dollar aad ftfty cents.
Those who procure 12 febferibers, and become
acconntable, (hall have a 13th gratis—and the u
sual allowance to booksellers.
The above woik comes from the pen of J.
Rohifon, of Edinborougti, a gentleman in high
eft.matioM in the literary world—the fads therein
recorded are well fulftautiate , an d thereafoning
and argumen-s thence deduced, while they disco
ver the found judgment and penetration «f the
writer, are calculated to amule as well as to in
ftrutft. A scene of villainy is developed by the
author fufficient to appal the ftoutefl heart.—-Th«
danger to be apprehended from secret focietias is
clearly pointed out ; the degeneracy of human«a
ture awiully illuflratsd, and the hazard of every
deviation trom the ftrnight path of rfligian and
of virtue, inconteftibly proved both to the politi
cian and the chriftiau by stubborn and incontro
vertable f i&s.
+4t Subferiptioiis taken in by G. Forman, No 46,
tWilliam-flreet, oppo/ite the Pafl-Offiie, and by the refptC
ive booltfctllers in New XorJt and PbilacL-lpbia.
February aB.
Salisbury Estate.
THE Subscriber, prop j(ing to contra# his busi
ness, offers this Eltite tor sale, on moderate
terms. On it are one Blast and three Air Furnaces,
a Complete Boreing Machine, and a very good grift
Mill, with two pair of stones ; also a For., . all
in pcrfeft repair, as are all the Water Works couneft
;ed with these various branches. Ihe Air Fur cei
| were lately built lor the of caitv£ Gasman
| for this State.—There are ahou 'wo thouf mi acres
of Land, one half of which is under wood,t» / dtber
very fine arable I.and, producing ihe bell H»y and
Pallure. The Cannon lately mannfacturcd
fully proves the excellency of the metal, wbich is
luperior to any in this country, and probably t equal
"to any in the world ; for not one of iixtyni c
lately made, although some of the 24 bored
into 32 pounders, have failed on proving. The fru
etion is very eligible, particularly for this branch of
inanufa£lur?, and a place of arms lying in the state
of Connefticut, and ooly 30 miles from f< vera < land'*
ings on the Hudson's river, and having every advan
tage that can result from a plenty of water iifTuing,
frorti a large natural pond, very near the Furnaoe,.
and which may be converted into a variety of other
ufeful purpoles. The purchafcr can be accommodat
ed with all the fltock and utenfiis, and have poflcflion
on or before the fir ft of June next, and preparation
may be made in the meantime for going into Bla ft im
mediately thereafter, for every part will be delivered
in good order, with some coal, Ore, &c. &c. For
termi, apply to Mr. jofeph Anth« ny, in Philadel
phia; David Brooks, Esq. one of the Reprefentatttves
in Got grcfs for this State ; Mr, Duvid Waterman , on.
theprenv:fes, or totheproorietor in New-York.
WILLIAM NEILSON.
Dee. 1. 3awtf
Wanted, to Hire,
A Large and convenient HOUSE, in or near
the centre of the city—for which a generous
rent will be given; to be taken for a year, or oa
more for a longer term. Inquire ef th« Printer.
Qift. if. eotf
FOR SALE,
Several fonts of Types—half worn.
Including Long Primer, about ,400 weight, in
good condition, and would answer the purpose »S
a country Prinwr as w<ll as new.
Enquire of the Printer.
City Commissioner's Office,
January 11 tb, 1798.
FOR THI INFORMATION OF THE CITIZENS.
following arrangement is made by the
said commifiianere, for cleaning the
ftr#fts, &c.
Diflrifl No. I.—From the north fide of Vine
street, to the south fide of Mulberry flrfet j to
be under the fuperinttndance ofVlicholas Hirks.
» From the south fide of Mulbrry street, ta
the south fide of C!tefiiut ftrreet, to be under the
fuperintendance of William Moulder.
3. From the south fide of Chefnut street to
the n«nh fide of Spruce street, to be under the
fuperintendance of Joseph Claypeole.
4. From the north fide of Spruce street, to the
south fide of Cedar street, to be under thr fu«
perjntendance of Hugh Roberts. mwfim
Jujl Publijhed,
And to be had of Melfrs. Dohfon, Campbell,Rice,
Cary, and the other pricipal Booksellers in the
city .price one dollar, twinty-6ve cents,in boards,
New Views of the Origin of the
Tribes and Nations of America.
Dy BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON, m. d.
June »o. 'it