Gazette of the United States.
HIIL4DSLP HIA,
TUKSnAT KVi MING, JI'LT 1<).
To RkA. Ea> AXU CoitSltSP;illDKKT*.
O" It is proper to apprize newfp.iper
reauers in the remoter qu rtersofthe Union
that she Gazrtte of the United States is an
Official paper and is the regular Journalist
o the Laws, and of every important Po
litical Document. With State Papers, the
Laws of the Union, and the moll recent Fo
reign and Domeltic News, general Litera
ture is aflociated, and the departments of
the paper so arranged, that wc have it in our
power to furuilh ot original mattes seven or
eight columns a week to the motley tr be
of mifcellantons readers, If public encour
age ent will, in the smallest degree, juftify
the labor, we (hall, in addition to our pre
sent we kly exhibit ol amusement and criti
cism (honly iubjoin a series of Original Ef
lays upon th le topics ' which came hoi'.e
to ivunnefs and bosoms." Hence,
the Gaz;tte of the U "*ed ta tes when,
bound in volumes at t'ie nd of each year,
and when the politics of the hour or of
party shall have ccafed to inform, or to in
fl-.rae, will be found to contain those ar
ticles and principles ofljcerature and morals,
which are at all times, and in all places,
profitable and pieafant.
CCS* The merchants of thecity, and friends
to the interest of this taper. are requelledto
furnifb lie Editor with such London, .Liv
erpool, Dublin and Edinburgh papers as
come to hand New papers will be always
intcrelling to ltofe " whohungeratjd thirll"
for intelligence, and Old papers will subserve
the views of the Euitor in fele&ing cLffical
and miscellaneous articles.
For the Gazette of the Ua/TEd States.
LOAVES AND FISHES.
In the famous addrefj to the Republican'
of Blinks County, dated at Addis's Tavern*
Aujyult ;4, 1799, they were told, tbat if
tbey succeeded in tbe grand object of rais
in# to the fist office in tbe StJte, Thomas
M'Kean, tbe man pJ tbe-people' &c. Istc. iSc.
it vitll be tbe prelude to future successes ;
a change of men and a ctange of manners
villi follow in due time.
In puifuance of the abovr do&rine, the
Jarobin cluhs (I life the epithet on account
of the near resemblance between them and
the cluhs of that name, who afted so confpi
ruous a part on the theatre of France,) con
tinued their periodical meetings, and altho' '
endeavors we re uled to keep .heir proceedings i
a frcre: amoni* thenifelves, the attempt al
ways proved abortive, for they were not all
of th? illuminati, and the biifinefs always
transpired ir, a grearer or a lefi decree. It
was so on publicly ktiown that one grand ob
jett of tUeir deliberation was to prevail 011
the Governor to displace Protys and
Remitters iiulifc .iminately without a hearing,
who had appeared in opposition to their fa.
vorite candidate, but no individual would
acknowledge that to be the principle upon
wh;«h they «£U-d, although one of the Di
rectory of Eaflon, who has since been re
warded with a portion of the loaves and
fillies, was heard, in an unguarded moment,
over his bottle, to declare, that tbe Governor
rjjuld be a demned rascal, if he did not dis
place every damned rascal who bad appear
ed against bis election. Petitions and re
commendations were accordingly drawn up
and signed for the laudable purpose, in order'
to be presented upon or before the day of
inauguration, and groundless calumnies, in
imitation of the electioneering scandal N of
1798 and 1799, were industriously circulated
among the citizens, from the highest to the
lowest, [I beg pardon, I h«d forgot that this
is a land of liberty and equality], in order
to prejudice the puhlitimind againfl the ob
jeits, who were meant "to be deflroyed.
One miscreant in particular, who had long
been remarkible for his want of common
hone fly, who has forged and record-d .1 re
ceipt for interest money, never paid, in order
to secure the payment of principal upon a
bond long since difebarged, has drawn and
caused to be executed, a bond and judgment
without a confideratinn, to defraud a poor
woman of her living, in cafe she should be
left, a widow—and other feats of the fiime
complexion; and who had never ventured
to meddle with firelocks, except on the fol
lowing cccafion, viz. to drive from his
dwelling a little kitchen girl, who had com
plained to his wife of his impudence—began
to kick and squeal with all the grimaces of a
crazy baboon, and circulated a report from
Briftcl to Durham, that there was such a set
of damn'd rascals about the public office that
he coultT not fiequent it with fafety, nor
even ventuie into the street without carry
ing his p ftol-and bayonet.
At length came the memorable 17th of
December, 1799, w,len Greets of Lancas
ter were illuminated with torches, and crouds
of patriots moving in proceflion, rent the
air' wTtli joyful acclamations. Meanwhile
the chief, not elevated by fuccef? above his
proper level, as vulgar minds usually are,
retained his equanimity, and remained the
fame candid placid creature as before, en
tered immediately upon the duties of his of
fice, and ilTued a proclamation, confirming
and continuing all appointments and com
roifiions, fcc. &c. for 3 months, unless sooner
fuperceded and annulied, &c. &c. &c. And
on ih; 18th of the fame month came for- '
ward the famous circular letter, whereby, it I
seems, the Governor had direftfd his secre
tary to intimate to 20 or 30 Protys and
Regiflers that he was sorry (I wish he had
chosen some other expreflian) that he had
determined to displace them. And the se
cretary, kind foul ! dlfcants upon the pain ;
he fullers in comhiunicating the intelligence.
Together vri „h the proflttoation and cir
cular'letter, came a vetbal report, that the
Register and Recorder of Bucks in particu
lar (though;i)ot honored with a circular Ut
ter) would be in darker utile I s he discarded
a certain clerk, who had taken the principal
charge of those office;-, for some years part,
and in theccurfe of his business, full/ evin
eedhis ability, induflry, integrity and sobri
ety. This report became great matter of
speculation among the Republieans; some
declared it was an upright ddcifion of the
Governor, and truly republican upon the
principles of Rotation, while others, equally
sanguine, declared it to be beneath the dig
nity of a Governor to dabble in such trifling
affairs, and even afF=£ted to believe it a piece
of aristocratic calumny raised in order to tar
ni(h the reputation of his Excellency.
The matter was canvalled for a long time,
and many pressing applicatisns made to the
officer lor the removal of his clerk, who flill
retaining sense enough to know that he
could not be spared, waved the matter from
time to time, notwithllanding a numerous
fry of candidates were besieging him on all
fides. At length the tumult subsided, and
many who were knowrt to be the most de
termined adversaries of the young man, now
declared themselves perfeftly reconciled to
his keeping his Ration, from a convidtion
that his prefcnce was there absolutely neces
sary. After some time the affair of the
Surveyor Gem ral made a noilc.in the State,
and Broadhead and Parker, because they re
lufed to be f-parated, were both ordered to
decamp. Upon this, the patriots of Bucks
took nev; ccurage, and renewed their solici
tations, and finally, at a meeting of the Re
publican Csmmittee of Bucks county, con
filling- of Delegates from twenty-five town
(hips, at Addis's tavern, on the 14th of
June, ißob, many resolutions were palled,
among: which is the following.
" Refolvid, that it is expedient,that the
Republican Citizens, and all who seek
information- on the fubjetts of the day,
hold frequent meetings for mutual council,
aid and encouragement. The more the
measures of the expiring Fa&ion are exami
ned, the more their tendency will appear.
If the people lhall find upon enquiry, that
their hard earning have been extorted, to
fill the pockets of a few ; that their money
has been paid and their ellates mortgaged to
fee advocates to plead for the powers that
be, they will draw their own conclufiom
. and act accordingly."
The Phifiegnomy of this refolre puts one
in mind of the charafter of a demagogue
drawn by a modern hand, which appears t»
be exadtly in point, of which take the fol
lowing extraA for a comment.—" With the
rights of the citizens, their virtue and their
sovereignty, eternally vibrating on his lips,
he may, for auaht they care, have a heart
as black as Tartarus, If he writss, let him
fill his pages with frothy declamation, and
vaunting Hombaft, with the canting jargon
of modem republicans, and it matters little
what arrangement he makesufeof. Am
biguity and confufion are even an advantage
to him, tbey are a labyrinth in which he lo- i
fes the wretches wh m he has enticed from
thdtr duty. In (hort, his business is to a
waken in his readers, jealousy, envy, re- >
venge and every paflinn that can disgrace
the heart of man, to lull his gratitude, rea- '
son and conscience allcep, and then let him
loose upon society."
'1 his was coi fidered as a good republican
resolution, and therefore pafled nem. con.
altho' it is so perfect a riddle that no one
but the demagogue, who drew it in hi*
close, can comprehend the meaning. De
termined however to make the b»ft of it,
every one undertook to explain ijt in his
own way. The Chairman of the commit
tee thought it was an encouragement for
those whe had fine horses, to make a pre*
fentof them to citizen Buonaparte, or cheer
fully to give up their (lock of grain for the
use of the Frrnch army in cafe of an inva
fion,or to rails corps of volunteers for their
aflillance as occasion might require. Others
thought it fixed an unequivocal mark of re
probation on the President in pardoning cap
tain fries, as the fellow had aded an im
prudent part before he left Philadelphia,
having according to the trite phrase let th:
cat out of the bag, by overlapping the pre
ferred mark, and (hewing that the spirit
of infurre&ion was not in full vigour. One
other, an imported patiiot., who tints del
no wan fud be ctntyn nued in offyfe. w :c is not 1
a friend to de coJlitu fii on, fancied that it !
was advice to the militia colonels to cashier
their paymasters and appoint others ; and
some were ofopinioo that the design was to
enrol ;o,coo United Irilhmen to teach the
Americans true liberty and the Rights of
Man.
At length a tall raw-boned figure, who
from his pra&ice of negle&ing his Clerical
FunAions for the fake of dabbling in poli
tics, has taken the name of Talleyrand,
who is the reputed author of the Bucking
ham address of last year, and who, previous
to the last ele£tioti upon a day of Sacrament,
between sermons, disgusted the pious part
of his hearers by distributing among them
packets of the Aurora, advanced upon the
floor, his afpt.commanded immediate at
tention, and whether fraught with a m f
fage from his excellency supplementary to
that of the 10th of December, or from his
own native penetration, is uncertain, dis
covered that one princ/pal objtdt of the re
solve was that the Register ot Bucks be di
redied to difcird his clerk, on pain of ex
hibiting the fame fpeftacle that Broadhead
and Parker had done before. Accordingly
a vote was taken, when it was determined
nem. con. that the young Federal Minion
should tramp before the 17th of July, ißco.
When the Register received the mandate
he could not but feel the diminution of hi
own importance, and smarting under the
democratic lash waa led into a train of very
disagreeable feiJat!on3, which terminated in
the following foliloquy—ls it for this that
I h»*« so loqg exerted eveiy nerve to pio
mote the cause i O the weary da»s and
nights that I have spent in planning and ex
ecuting elt&iorteering schemes, when the
cause was extremely doubtful ! Have f not
taken upon me every fhapeand name afTusied
by the party since the revolution ? Have I
not been a yellow-wig. a blue flcin, a red
Inouth, a constitutionalist, an anti-federal,
a democrat and am I not now a republ can ?
And shall I not be permitted to retain my
own clerk, who has been long tried, and
in whom 1 can placa full confidence ? But
be di&ated to by the sovereign people who
are so much indebted to me for what they
now po'iefa ? Be it so since the people have
ordered it. Still am I determined ro re
main a republican, or whatever name may
be adopted by the party, and like the pa
triot vidlims of our lifter state when advan
cing to the national razor, cry out with ec
ftacy, Vive la Rrpubiique.
awaking from hit reverie he accord
ingly gave the signal to his clerk to depart,
whj upon the 17th inft. bid adieu to th«
painful service, consoling himfeif with this
refie&ion, that the office wants me more than
I want the office.
J should not have dwelt so long upon the
minutix of this trifling and local aCiir,
were it not chat the fame condutt pervades
the whoL . fyftcin of modern democracy,
Were not the fame exertions, duplicity and
fcanslal used to secure the loves anctfillies of
an ounce, as those of a pcund weight, but
when we fee the fume train of secret craft
and open calumny pra&ifed againd a Presi
dent of the United States, a candidate for
the office of Governor, or a Registers clerk,
it matters little from whence you take your
examples : I know no difference in lefpe&a
bility between a Secretary of State and his
junto, and a chairman of a County Commit
tee at Addis's l'avern, between a Gallatin,
secretary of a seditious meeting in Brad
docks field, and a Fries at the head of the
Northampton Infurreftion. Such b«ing the
state of politics in this country, it would be
well for those who put security of person
and property upon a level, at least, with the
new fangled system of Liberty and Equality,
to consider whether tamely to fuffer the
rein of government to go into the hands of
those who appear so little qualified to hold
thetn, and who like the heroes in Hislibras
—Tug at both enrft of the favr,
To tear down government and law.
or whether by a united and spirited exer
tion of the right of fuffrage at the ensuing
eledtion continue the power in the hand of
those men and their adherents, who at the
commencement of the federal government
rescued the fhtes from the jaw* of bankrupcy
and impending ruin, and have since fte d j
their course with so much wisdom and mo
deration that no hoiieft man by their means
has fuffered either in his person or proper
ty-
A Bucks County Man.
For Sale, Freight or
Charter,
fejaL SHIP APOLLO,
'sMgcrsjl Knowjlbs Adams, Mastbh,
A good ftauch vefliel,
Bat en one hundred and thirty eight tens; will
be ready to r-ceive a cargo in a few days. Apply
to the nailer oa board, at Hamilton's wharf, or
WILLIS is- YARDLEY.
Chefnut Street Wharf, North-
N. B. Consignees of Ciiods on board said Clip
from Madeira, art requested to obtain their per
mitt a* early at possible, add forward the fame to
the officer attending.
7 inon. 18 _ { 4t
Saulnier & Wilson,
WQQLSti DRAPiUS, MEXC£JtS, UV
No. 63, North lide Mark«t-flre«,
HAVE a general afforttaeot of bed London
fuperfine Broad Cloths and Caffimeres, (of
the oewtft lattion) silk stripe and second quality
Cloths, filhionabls waiflcoating, silk stripe jnd
twill'd Nankeens, Jean, Fuflian, Gingham, Dimi
ty, Thickfetj fancy Cord, Vtlvets, Scarlet, yellow
and white Flannels, Flanders, Irish and brown
I.inein, Dowlas, mens* and wnmens' liik and
cotton Hosiery, coat and veil pearl, ft eel, gilt and
plated Buttons, different eel ura Silk Velvets, tam
boured and Cambric Muslins, Calicoes, Caliman
coes, Shiwls, Pocket Handkerchiefs, Gloves,
Lhecks, &c &c.
N. B. Taylors' bed quality Trimmings all
which they will fell very low.
Jul) 18, «!tf
To be Let,
For the seasons is* immediate possession given
A very pl«afant, healthy
COUNTRY SEAT,
TT7"ITH Garden, Palmrr Grounds, Coaih-
VV House, Ice-Hf>u(e, &c &c.—Situated near
the Frankford road, and about 3 1-2 mill's from
the city. For terms apply ts the fuhferiber, in
Chefnut, above Eighth iirret..
W. MACPHERSON.
July aB. d6t
Baltimore and New York Mail
Stage Office
IS removed from No. 13 South Fourth street, to
No. 18 South Third !■ reet.
An Office for thofc ltagts is also kept at tor.
Kardy's Inn, No. 98 Market street.
General Post Office, April aB.
" NOTICE.
B„ P. Berckemeyer,
OF HAMBURGH,
INFORMS his friends in rbe United States,
that the partnerlhip of Berckemtyer & Co.
was dissolved on the 3; fl of December, 1799,
and all accounts with fcid firm will be liquida
ted by him. For any fur hertranfaflinns he begs
leave to recommend to them his Brother and
Succeflbr, John Benry Berckemeycr.
Hamburgh, April IS, 175-9-
Jul) » 5 . dtf.
A
Messrs. HODGKINSON and
BARRETT,
Refpeflfwlly acquaint the Lad:es and Gent'e
meu of Philadtlphia, that the
Old Theatre, in Southwark,
will be opend
For Two Nights only,
On THURSDAY Evening, July 31ft, ißdo>
with a Ipecies of entertainment, Moral, In
firuflive, and Amusing, confiding of Reci
tation, Music, Song, &c and properly de
nominated the
Feast of Reason
A NO
The Flow of Soul.
Part I ft.
Will commence with an OCCASIONAL
ADDRESS, after 5 year's abtence, by Mr.
Hodgkinfon,
To be followed by Mr. Barrett, who vri'l de
liver, the nv ft feledl paru of the celebrated
George Alexander Slivens't
LECTURE ON HEADS.
Being a comic, fatyric, whiml'ica:, humour
ous, moral, illui'trativeDiflertaiion asd Display
Of Heads, Hearts, Passions, Humours,
Wbtms, Oddities isf Characters,
In three parti.
T~*o expatiate on the propriety of an Enter
tainmeDt, where the Follies of Life are
exposed in laughable striking colours, and the
moral inferences drawn from such display, it is
presumed, would be needless. It is well known
that theantients held this mode of inftruflive
ainufement in the higheil degree of estimation ;
ncr has it been lef« esteemed by the molt p >-
lifhed nations among the moderns. To
" Catch the living manners as they rife," has
ever been held not only allowable but merrito
rious j and the opinion given by one of the
most enlightened of the sons of men, of the
original compiler, of the Ledlure now offered
to the public, " That has merit, genius, and
fatincal obfervationt, marked him as a Public
Cesfor ; and that his judicious difp'ay of Fol
ly and Vice, entitle him not only to publir en
couragement, but public thanks." As it high
ly flattered attempts of the then living author,
mufi be considered at the higheil eulogitim to
hit manes j so it is hoped the fame wi(h to
please and entertain in the present cafe, be
viewed at least with candour.
PART ift.
1. Quack Doftor.
3. Coat of Arms.
3 Misfortune.
4. Simple Block.
J. Difiertation on Law, with a Cafe in
Point.
6. Pretty Fellow.
7. Nobody't Htad.
8. Difiertation on Nothing.
9. Nobody't, Somebody't, or any Body's
Coat of Arms,
10. Diflerta-ion on Architecture, Painting,
P. etry, Astronomy and Music.
11. Illustration of Law, Bullam verfut
Boatum.
PART id.
1. Riding Hond.
2. Lady of Fafhian.
3. f'ifhwoman.
4• Contrast
j- Crying Phiiofophers.
6. Laughing do.
7. Cleopatra.
8. Diflrnation how Ladies will or may
peflefs the beauties of Venus.
9. French Night Cap.
10. Old Maid.
11. Old BitcheWr.
12. Krowze Head,
13. Flattery.
T4. Honcfly.
kit 3d.
t. A London Buck.
». Lady of Ton.
3. American Sailor.
4< Connniffeur
j. Turtle-fating Alderman.
♦. Swindler.
7. Funeral of ditto.
8. Monument of ditto.
9. The Treatment of a Soldier in the year
45 —Story of the Year 45.
to. Yorick by Shakefpearc, aod Tristram
Shandy,
it. Methodist Preacher.
l». Conclusion.
Between the different heads, Mr. Hodglcin
fon will f.tig frme of Dibdin's New and mcft
Popular SONGS, never yet heard in America,
with Recitation, &c to be arranged in the fol
lowing erder.
PART id.
After the Head of the Quack Doctor,
The celebrated Song of the
NEW QUACK,
Or the man that cures every difnrder, with
cuppinc, drenching, couching, clyfler, pu
king, bleeding, sweating, blister, diet, bolus,
dofeorpill.
After the diflertatioa on taw with a cafe ia
point, theS^sgof
TRUE G L 0R r,
With an introduction, and various opinions,
of whit True Glory is.
After the illustration of BULIUM vfrsus
BOATUM ; —Part ift, will finifh with the
Song of the
Country Club ;
OK THE
QVIZZICAL SOCIETY.
Pait ad.
After the Laughing Philosopher, Mr
Hortgkinfon will sing the much celebrated
Lauphing Song, " NOW'S THE TIME
FOR MIRTH AND GLEE and con
dude Part the id with
SHELTY'S TRAVELS,
AND
Voyage to America :
Leaves the Isle of Col—arrives in Lsndon
meets O'Keefe, and lives by Story .telling—
Binifhraent—ariival in America—visits the
' Stat»-Houfe, Museum, Theatre, 4cc.
Conclusion and Song of
HERE'S A NICE NEW BOW WOW,
The Staunch Dog—the Sly Dog—the Hearty
Dog—the Sulky D«g—the Cheating Dog—
the Catching Dog, aad many other Dogs,
in the charaAcr of
A COMICAL DOG.
part 3d:
After the Hea 1 of the LONDON BUCK,
Mr Hodgkinfon wil! ling th-a
Froiickfome Fellow.
After the Turtle eating Alderman, the much
admirtd Soup of
MOUNSEER NONG TONG PAW,
John Bull's Trip to France.
The Evening's Entertainment to finirti with
General Washington,
And concluding Song & Chorus.
Messrs. Barrett & Hodgkiwson, bsg
leave to allure the public, that every eare has
been taken to felecl an entertainment worthy
tf.eir patronage, and t • make the Theatre com
modioli? and cool as poffi'^le.
?£s" Places for the Boxes, to be had at Mr.
North's, any time from Wednesday i® o'clock
A, M
Tickets to be had at Thomas Sc Wi'litm
Bradford's Book-Store, No. 8, south Front
ilreet-
*„* Box I Dollar—Pit 75 cents—Gallery
50 cents.
Door* to be "pen at 7 o'clock, and the per
formance t j begin precisely at 8
July 29.
Port Wine & Claret
In Cases, if h' f.rj f ualiijy.
Wine and Cyder Vinegar.
In Pipes ard Qi<ariar Caflr> Prr 3 | e (,y
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS £3" C O .
July 29 3aw^w.
For Sale,
The Unexpired TIME of a BLACK BOY,
WHO has three y< ars and five months to
serve ; fee is sober, hoar ft, a good wai
ter, and underftanda taking" care of horses. En
quire at No. 60, Dock street.
J al r *9- eo ,«f
For Sale,
In tke pleasant village of Mount Holly, Bur
lington County, 18 miles from Cooper's
Ferry, and 7 from Burlington ;
ONE LARGE TWO STOP Y
Brick - House,
FIVE and thirty feet square, fourtoomson
each floor, and a cellar under the whole.—
L'kewife a forty foot front Lot, situ.
ate on Mill-street, near therairket, with anew
Carriage House and Stables on the rear of the
Lot, fronting a public alley. For further par
titulars applv to
MAHLON BUDD, or
ISAAC CARR, in Burlington.
Who will shew the premifea and nuke known
the terms, of the fubfcri'ier in Burlington, by
whom an indisputable title will be given.
MICAJAH ELLIS.
Burlington, July 9, 1800.
I"'y »*- eodtf.
Received
By the slip Kensington, cajtain Acfemttn,
from London,
A QJJANTIi'Y OF
Brown Russia Sheetings, and
Ravens-Duck,
Of a superior quality.
Also on band, received the late arrivalc
5 y
AN ASSORT MEN? OF
Holiery, Checks, Fuflians, Jeansj
Ginghams, Callimancoes,
Durants, &c.
For sale by
ROBERT SMITH (J? Co.
No. jB, south Front-street.
July i 6. diw
VALUABLE REAL ESTATE.
FOR SALE,
About 25 acres of Land\
LAYING on the east fide of the Falls Road.—•
On the East it is bouuded by property belong
ing to Mr. Tench Francis, frn.—on the south, by
a road of two perches, and on the north by a lane,
wMch separates it from Mr. M'Call. It ii propo
sed to divide this land into 3 equal part* in order
to fait the purcbaferst
Also, 31 acres, fitnated on the weft fide c f
Geraiantown rotd, adjoining MAen't estate,
being part of ths proparty of the late Samuel
Mifflin.
For terms apply to Samuel Mifitin, corner of
Market and nth flreets.
January »4. <itf.
A FEW COPIES
or
The Anti-Jacobin
Review & Magazine,
(VOL. IV.)
Have just been received and arc now for sale,
By A. DICKINS,
_ Opposite Christ Church.
July ti.
A CERTIFICATE
F©B a three quarter Share of Bank Stock of the
United States, No. 3818 in the name of John
Holmes, jun has been lost or miflaye.) and for the
Renewal of which application has been made at
said Bank, of which all concerned are desired to
take-notice.
PETER TREOBNT.
May 19. d3m.
TO BE RENTED,
A GENTEEL HOUSE,
WITH a stable, carriage-houft and lot,
situated in a pleafaat part of Trenton. The
terms will be moderate, and pofleffion can be
had immediately ; but the tenant will not be
wanted to occupy the premises after the 10th
of next November. For terms apply t« th»
printer, rr to ABRAHAM HUNT, esquire,
in Trenton. *
Juneu- tuthJcstf
A Monody,
SACKED TO 7HE MEMORT OP
A Summer Retreat.
- -.V
i'