The moral dispensary.
Quid fnira interest, utrusi ex honiioc fc qels
eonferac in bolluam, an hpdbcis figura immamta
tcm gerat belluat ? " Cic.
If a man ivtll djfume the savage infenjibility of a brute,
be might as well take the form liiexoife.
NO part of the human constitution so ur
gently demands th<r unremitted care of the
Moral Physician as the p iflione. To re
train, to temper, to clireft them to suitable
objecls, conftitur.e the whole of human hap
piness, as well as the fuwi of moral duty.
On the contrary ; to give the reins, with
out controul, or to fuller tftem to Aagnate
in total inaction, with equal certainty, in
duces wpcthednefs and ruin.
I cnn(hler the foul of man, eiicompafled
by its af&cVions and paiTmns, as refeniblihg
a grave, judicious, affettiouate father, fui
rounded «»y a family of dillolute and ungo
vcrned daughters. Their pleasantry makes
him cheetfol, their vivacity gives him Ani
mation. their heceflities ftirunlate his labors,-
and their" filial obedience inspires him with
complacency and love : but, on the other
fcand ; their wainpn indifcrctions, their in
ordinate ;/eihJH-s, t,heir firqaent diibb.di
tiite, and tJu-ir refradiory tn jna^kiKy are
the grief and torment: of his hfe. In like
manner, theic ireakiOi daughter* of the foul,
it trained and difcipttned to the ruksof mo
cieft decorum, and confined within ilie bounds
of rational iupordinaiion, at once afford a
fti minus to_ vigorous exertions, and accom
pany thofc eX'efi&ons with the hig'heft en
joyment : nut, if iefrtn puHue"the devious
Tom f their owii lui fettled &ntSjjs like
the tire ( f night', t!ky isu-.i, u:iheed-
ed. to ruinous civi.-.Acr
In order to prevent the more vio'eift and
frnifchievous pfrom predominating in
the iSind, every one should be c refill lb
'-place intj»!eif in rirt urn/lances I'uited to in-
c< ntii iji, by exerele, those be
nevolent -emotions, whith' conftitut* the
fonrc.e of every rational pic* fare. As with
the rays of the fun, so with the afTe&ions of
'the heart : it is by reflection alone that they
"are rendered perceptible. In open (pace,
they wander »nperceived : in njfting at their
fourc.e, they adV without efFeft : but when
they tall and center up"*n some external ob
ject, then -firft is dilluvcred the beauty and
genial w.irnvth of the bosom whence they
emanate : then it Is, that the foul partici
pates the hapoinrf* of its creator, and feel
th&t the ptrfedion of felf love confifK in
that which comes, by reflection, from the
•objefts about it.
Does any one dotmt the cerreftnefs of
theie remarks ? Let him enquiic for a fond
lover, who alks to Be freed from the real evils
of solicitude, doubt and fufpcnce, which
accompany his paifioit, if, with t'hele Ire is
t-4 Le robbed of the Complicated and i»de-
Icribable pleasure wl\ich he 4£tfvc!sYroni the
exercise of that a flection. L*t him leek for
a mother, who desires relief from the anx
ieties, the cares, the ]<;btfrs and the appre
nenfions which (he undergoes for the love
of her children, if cold indifference towards
them offer to miniftcr that relief. Let him
make a ft:!! tyfore serious appeal, and enquire
Fpl* » meek and puAis cin;»nan, who, feeling"
the love of hi* Go<l his warm
ut h.s he -.rt, would, aside from all future
CQUiiderations, allow the crown of thorrts to
be pjpdktfi' frcm his bead, if, at the fame
t me, cblivion were to ei tfe from his heart
tliofe gran-ful, those Jiviiic emotion* which
he feels to be t fTtsitial h;ippi r>efs-
Can he' find such ? It one were found ;
v6<tH he hot pronouncy him brute orfiehd,
i;nd he diipofed, with a righteous Lndigni-
tiou, to
To'blh :he r.aktd thtough i!f« world
Tu the honci- of humanity, it will be
found, with very rare exception, thatevery
peH'cn, who has felt the genial glow of such
difeftions, wilt agree that love, in all theft
farms, is a gwflf too welcome at the heaj-t
t) be ; u'iely I jlted o*t for the paltry re.i
ft*i, that be is, at times, attended by a few
unp\af-lit »r less agreeable companions.
Whether he assumes the enchanting form of
Conjugal love the milder, though not toss
iniearing afpeft of filial or parental affec
tion ;—a-f the more grave and dignified mien
of friend/Hip, piety and benevolence ; he,
ajike in aH, potUefles the magic power of
li.ioptbing the rugged roads, through which
lie leads, anil of so veiling and difguifiijg
tfee evils which follow in his train,-at to
render them, on his account, easy and even
jleafant to be borne. It is not. then, cor
tedt to fay, that these tmc-.'mnsprotiuce Imp
pine ft.: they are happtr.efs ; and thole, who
feel tbern not, arc (lungers to the true feli
city of life.
l"h«fe -who would tafle theft fruits, mud
tmtuau* the foil in which they grow. They
will not f|;,ontuiiesully present th:mfeKcs to
the lifts of the fiilt li - l.cljorite, ivfio can fee
in this world "no beauty or comelincfs
wherefore he Ihould ilefue it. The teiil'o
rious niifanthrope may find, in the depr.ivi
tv of hmnart nature, abundant vent for all,
his envenomed spleen : but wisdom would
check its flow, for it cannot fail to recur
lipon himfelf, with twofold virulence. Tile
i)i|n who secludes hiinfelf from society, and
suspiciously withholds from man and wo
man, his confidence and nfleilion, merely
froru the appiehenfton of their being abused,
-would ait with perfeit coiifirtency, IhoUld
he procure his head to be taken off for fear
that ir might ake. If his own wrctcbednefs
be his object, he has chosen the ready course
ts be fatisfied to the lull, and will doubtless
enjoy, .the miserable fatisfaflion of finding
mankind precisely such as he had depifted
them ; so unkind and hard hearted as net
even to pity his unhappinefs. Sush is,
doubtless, the wife constitution of things,
that no surer method can be adopted to pro
duce either good or ill will, in others, than
to inanifeft a belief of its adtnal exigence.
Every person, therefore, who thinks, by
(Contempt and feorn, to bring the world to a
fenfeof his duty Vnuft 'b ■ wretchedly disap
pointed to Hnd that this lame world is
always ready to turti up a more formidable
nose than his, and will far out-fcorn the
fcarner.
The voluntary old bachelor, who has
spent his youthful vigor in riot and debaLch
ry, and rendered bimfelf like the muddy
dregs of vapid beer, nauseous and destitute
Gf every natural oua'itv except its bitterness,
to whole ear the converUtron of women is
idle lioiifenle, an J tie prattle bf children
irk lb me jargon, is tylW entitled to be tree
from thi.il;evils, iiut lei him aik no more.
Let him not grow lour and repine at the
happintU of his neighbor who enjoys, an: -v,
the pleasures of youth, in the Iriatenuitg
gaity of a filing and hopeful family. He will
look in vu;n tor vhofi? transports winch P.t
tui> felt, when, in the hands cf an enemy,
lie <iw tfc>e weeping Ai< ri a entreating, as
a tavor, to be allowed 10 accompmy her
captive hit {baud, to Walt jit his meal*, and
put on h.. (hoc*, in the Voom of a icrvaat.
t<* whom, by his rank, P.Etus was entitled :
or when, after t denial of this favor, he saw
her, in an open boat, braving the dangers
of the Tea, to follow him aerofs the Adria
tic. Let hiru content ii.mfr'f to fore, ofu ch,
and innumerable other kind offices \vhich
fprin.* dpiy from v'n ttmus attachments, which
enliven the plealu re, an&. alley iate the sorrows
of life. These are " joys which the ih;anger
intermeddleth not wit's." They are right?,
which belong to the father and the kufband,
who mu(l not he defrauded.
Thofc, then, who would leek a fliield
ag«tir.(i the ingratitude, the di (appointments
and the disasters of the world, wit! find it,
not in theexertifc of malevolence, which it
lelf is misery ; not in and solitary re
tirement, the aoode of consciOus infignin
cance and reft lcls discontent ; but iri those
aomrftio relations anc! friendly connexions,
which dsmand the exercise of unremitted
epre, attention and kindwefs. These are
prpduftive ciufes of attachment «nd love to
the objects towards whom they arc exerted,
and conflitute the fame species of felicity
which the Deity himfelf enjoys in consult
ing and the welfare of his crea.
tion. SALOMON SIMPLE, p. m. d.
QUERIES
Respeff fully effe en to the eonjideration of the
Academy of Medicine, and other learned
Injlitut'tons.
IS it not proper to petition the Assem
bly for a law, to forbid the inhabitants of
Philadelphia to keep Sour Krout in their
iiouftb, and the farmers to fell beans* in the
market, during the warm months of film
mer and autumn ; as both thete vegetables
are known, dire&ly or indirectly, to have
a peculiar tendency to generate a mephitis
gas, and to corrupt the atmosphere ?
Which is thegreatelt pelt to society, the
ignorant mountebank wbovends his nostrums
from a Itall, whom every body defpifesand
avoids, or the Medicinse Do&or who, in
pursuit of discoveries and a great name, pro
ceeds year after year t© make experiments
on the human frame, at the .expeuce of
thoufauda of lives ?
If you denominate any disorder by the
name «{yellow Fever, no matter what it is
and treat it as such, will (t not become as
alarming amtonorial, jn a month or fix weeks
as the real yellow fever if the Weil-Indies ;
and will it not produce rffetts equally bane
ful to the prosperity of the ci>y ?
If Vcfffls failing from Phladetphia and
New. York in the months of August, Sep
tember, and Oftober, are obliged to per
form quarantine in,Great-Britain and Ire
land, as was the tale lad year, although
veflels direftly fr<im the Weil-India islands,
the i ative feat of the yellow fever, were
exempt, it it not an alarming circumtUnce ?
and are we not indtbted fur.this injurious
dillin&ion to the infinite pains foma men
have taken, to fpj-ead an opinion chat aa/w
and malignant disorder, winch they denomi
nate an " autumnal pejtilt. ee" has made its
appearance in the United States j owing to
fume change in the atmofphereof the coun.
try, which they can neither describe nor
account for ?
I with to know whether the Oleum taccu
linum applied warm to the pericianeum of a
patient, or the lex Hbellorum to hiscrumena,
is like to be the moll efficacious medicine in
subduing the lanceto colamelo-phobiajacon
tumacious malady which if not fpecdily
checked, threatens to bring the ptaiiice of
some learned p yficiaus into Uoiveifal dis
credit ?
How many patienrs may a phyfieian kill
by the free and indiscriminate prefcripti#n
ot a ritu medicine, btfyrea man may ven
ture to call him a £>uacL ?
In this disastrous age of the world, when
the rabies innovandi prevails so univerfaliy,
is it not possible, even, for a lunatic to make
converts to a new opinion ? Brothers, one
of the crazicfl, chough perhaps the most in
nocent, of the modern illuminati, had patrons
and difcipies even in the Britilh Houfc of
Commons 1
May not a man be very f-nfible and intel
ligent on common topics, and yet rav« like
a lunatic, whenever yellow fever is brought
into convcrfation ? We know there are
patients i» Bedlam, who talk very ration
ally on every fubje&, except those which
were tha immediate cause of i heir derange
ment. One of this unhappy defenption
conceited that he was Neptune, the God
of the Ocean, and on his proper element
he was omnipotent ; he could even estin
guilh the fire» of Tartarus, or quench the
thunder-bolts ot Jupiter. On all other to
pics he was rational and entertaining, but
as soon asyou touched on this awful theme,
you put hit intellectual machine into the
wildest disorder. AN ENQUIRER.
* " Aljiain from leant,' was one <»f the fa?a apho
rifms of Pythagaras: the meaning, though too re
condite for the vulgar, mult be well knewn to your
learned academy.
A STATEMENT OF FACTS,
By which the public may Jorm sopie judg
ment 'of the intrepid valour of master
John Rush.
Last evening three females, two of whom
art married, thojjrht proper to enjoy the
ple ifure which the united powers of a Merry
and Cooper promised.at the the atre. During
the two firfl aits, fcveral gein.l;men Ipoketo
them, but in a style not to „'ive offence. It
remained for this daring {tripling and his
companion (who is unknown) to o'er leap
the bounds of decency, and to insult them in
the grofiett manner. They condescended to
uie language that would have a
flue boy, and by the repetition of " Damme
/ know you—l know your voice, 'tis damn'd
ajfectijn to me—throw up your veil—and
don't be so shy—l tell you I smoak you."—
This, and much more in the fame fubliffie
style, obliged one.of them to lift her veil,
wiv n /he begged him to delill, and requeued
t,i know his name—he answered her by a
m .1 in ieceijt exprellion, at which himfelf
.companion were the only ones to
l.tli-rh. The hdies attempted to retire.—To
walk was impollible, as they had every tiling
ta dread from his indecent behaviour, and
no carriage was to be had To early.
Corporal puriiflisneht is Deft fu:t"d to bis
time of life, but tlie rod ou lit to be.placed
in the hands of his reipeiitable father, who,
no d.yiibt, will be much hurt by the coudujt
of his i'pn, so unlike a gentleman. Shout !
this forward youth add. to'"'is unmanly Can,
duct, that of, t*. the psrl'ons concerned
beg leave to reltr him to Mr. J. Be Bond,
who was present part of the time ; or lieut.
M. Reynolds,— to the polifrnc{'3 of the hit
ler gentlemen the ladies are much obliged.
He did that which would have Srfgraced no
in.in, and ought ever to diflinjuilh the sol
dier—vi protect the uriprcrteftffd,.
Tliis {latenirnt is not meant to draw an
apolorry from Kulh, no;, they wauld disdain
to accept of in apology frr-rtj a person caoa
ble of acting as h.- has done. They will
otter one for him-: he aTtyteared to afl under
tfce effldt of foreign influence, and from ths
effiuvia it was supposed to be Nantz.
CONGRESS.
MOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, March 24,
Mr. Parker, from the Naval Committee,
reported the foM6>wing resolution :
Resolved, By the Senate and Iluufc of
Bdprelenratives of the United States of
America, .in Congref* allembled, that the
President of the United-Mates be requdted
to present to Captain Thomas TrHxtun, a
Golden Medal, embleniatka.l of late
adtion between the United States frigate
Cgnfkllation, of 38 guns, and the French
fhip*of*w;>r L.a Vengeance, of 54 guns, in
testimony of the high fenle entertained by
Congrefs,"of hr« galla.itry and good conduct
in the above engagement; wherein an exam-
pk was exhibited, bv the Captain,, Officers,
Sailors, and Marines', honorable to the
American name, and inftruitive to its rising
navy.
Tiyjt the conduct of James
jarvis, a o*vdfbjpn>3fA;tn fa id frigate, who
gloriaufty preferred death to the
abandonment of his pofK i$ cilleryitftg of the
highest praise. and that thr loss of io pro
vmfinp; a;i officer is a fufojeCt. of national
recrret
MefiYs. Randolph and l,v<m -.ppi'fed i!i<-
H1 iefoliitioii. 'l'ht: quc'lhon u-jon
;■> it was taken by nvt- nd n;.yi .'.n-J Carried
,;yef, 87— noes 4. 'I hole who voted in the
negative are
Mr. Jackson,
?vlr. ){.l nd.- io'i,
Lyon, Su.mp.ter.
The second refolutkm whs agreed to nn?.-
nimoufiy 1 .
The WV fupplemenbry <0 the to regu
late trade and ihtcrcouric with the Indian
tube's, and to preserve peace on the frontiers
was read a third time, auiipaffed.
Mr. A. Foller prefta;e(j a petition ot
Sitas Dinfmoor, late an agent of the United
States to the Cherokee nation of Indians,
praying compenfati'on lor (ervices rendered
tin that capacity. 'Referred to the Commi-
tee of Claims,
Mr. Gallatin pre fen ted the reraonftrance
of a number of the inhabitants of Fayette
county, Penfilylvanfa, agaipft Benjamin
Wells, collector rf extile in th?t county ;
which was referred to the Secretary of the
Tre a fury.
Mr. 1). Fofler, from the Committer of
Claims, mad-} a report on the petition of
Robert Yates, who prayd tor commutation
to which he fuppofedhe was in titled as heir
to his late brother. The Committee report.
that the petitioner never had thr right to
which he tnalcs -lalm, :>od that the petition
fllc 11 Idbe rejeilcd. i:, this ivpou tjif House
coin* u rred,
Mr, Harpt'r brought in a bill to amend
the a4t intitl;d «n a<ft tp provide for tbe
Second Ce»fu.s, or eaumrtian of the inh?.*
bi?:uits' of tiie Uniu'd States ; which was
ordered to be rt-ad a third time to-morrow.
The Hoi:f i;j I'linu'il the t onfideration. ot'
the quellion 011 palling the b ; ll for the relief
of the Corporation "of Rootle lilind College.
MclTis.' Matfon tind G*. Ha tin nppsfed it,
and Messrs. Gtiatrplnv, Otis, and J. Brown,
in favor of it, when the qticftioi. was taken.
Yeas 4*. Nays 41.
Mr. Speaker declare him fell in the affir
mative, and the bill was pa (fed
Mr. Harper brought in a bill to make
further provilion for tbe removal and ac
commodation rf the Gover«ment of the
United States, which was read and commit
ted for Wednesday.
The house went into committee of the
whole on the bill to provide for the better
regulation and ertablifhment of the courts
of the United States, when the bill hating
been read by the clerk, the committee rose,
and ok the question, (hall tbe committee
have feavetu fit again, it pafled in the u*gi
tive—ayes 38—noet 40.
Mr. Harper moved the following resolu
tion, which was agreed to by the house,
viz. Resolved, That the committee of ways
and means have leave to repare and rsport
a bill or kills, . for making appropriations
for the various branches of the public ler
viee during (he present year.
Adjourned,
SENATE.
William Duane, who was commanded by
the Sei.ate of rtie United States, to appear at
their, bar oh the 24th inft. in compliance
with that 1 rder appeared in the senate cham
ber yefterdsy forenoon—and upon the Pre
sident's rtquettisg him to state, what he had
to lay in answer to the charge alledged
against him, replied, that not being versed
io the law, from an unacquaintatice with
which he might poflibly criminate himfeii
iu anfweriig all the queftinr.s which proba
bly might be put to him, he wished to be
heard by counlel. He was then ordered to
withdraw—when a motion was made that
counfcl should be allowed ; but an obje&i
on being made to Mr. Duane's substituting
the appearance of counlel in his behalf, and
of absenting himfelf hi was again called f ii»
and defiled to Hate, whether if cnunfel was
allowed, he meant to attend himfelf—His
answer being evalive, a refolation then was
agreed to—ayu 21—noes 8, allowing him
coui'fel provided he attended 10 answer such
quetliori6 as might be judged proper to be
put to him.
Anoiher lefolu ionwasalfo adopted, com
manding his attendance in the Senate cham«
ber on Wtdnefday, at 12 o'cluck.
gparitu flift.
Port of Philadelphia.
Ship Eclipse, Jones, for Calcutta, left
New Gallic yefierday. An inward bound
brig, laid to be the Charlotte, Eagbefon,
from St Kitts.
Captain Meany, of the brig Rose, informs
that he filled trom Mountevideo, in the
river La Plata, on the 6th of>January last,
and arrived at New-Castle the 17th of
March. Left at Mountevideo the ship Sally
for Philadelphia, to fail in 20 days ; the
brig Pennsylvania, Knox, to fail in 4.0 days;
two Americans from Hamburg, admitted
to fend their cargoes to the C'uftom-houfe
until they repaired, and obliged to take their
cargoes away, owing to the royal order ar
riving and being made known some days be
fore their arrival, prohibiting all neutral
velTels from entry in the Spanish colonies :
—also a Hamburg thip, ordered out in 20
days.
The cargo of the Rose confifb of the fol
lowing article :—Tallow, hides, fras skins,
elephants teeth, oflrich feathers, beaver, bed
feathers, horse hair, leopard skins, horse
skins, deer Ik ins, and furs of different forts
A Liverpool paper of the 23d December
la(l, contains advertisements of the following
veflel9 for the United States :
For New-York, Ship Nancy*, Warden ;
Barque Pallas*, Bowden ;
Ship Supply, Pittigrcw,
mounting- 24 guns, 9
and iff pounders.
For Norfolk, Ship Adventure, Vardell,
400 tons burtbeh, to
fail the beginning of
February, and join
conVoy at Cork.
For Savannah, Brig (Jnion, Youug to
join convoy at Cork
about the end of JaE.
Ship Three Friends,
Trumbull, mounting
I 6 £'JhS.
* American vessels.
NEW THEATRE-
To-morrow evening* March 26.
Will be prefanted a TrageOy, (not a&ed thftfeafoni
calU'd
ROMEO and JULIET.
To which will be added, (not acted this fcalon) a
Farce, in two ail*;, called
THE DEAF LOVER.
Box. one Dol ar, l ; it, three quarters* ©f a
dollar, awl Gallery half a dollar.
& The doors of the Theatre will open at a
quiver pa&s, and the certain rife at a quarter
past si*,
VI VAT RESPUBLICA.
MRS. BECK,
BEGS leave to inform (he L.ir' es of Pliila
delphia-, that fbe opens her 'MORNING
SCHOOL for Geography and HilWy on the
4th of' April, from 6to 8 o'clock. Any young
Ladies may attend, as well as thole already un
der tuition'.
Fifth Street, oppos'te State House Yard.
N. B.—A FEW LOTS"to be let at FranK*
iord. Enquire As above.
March 25
jfvst /'rrsvsd)
In the (lap Mary, Th«mas Webb, Master,
front I.aguira,
40,00 a wt. Qarracas Cocoa.
30,000 lb. Priiise Prime Coffee.
5,000 wt. Flora Indigo.
THOMAS "ALLI&ONE,
March 2-
A Summer Retreat.
A convenient and Genteel House. ftrui erl in
Trentcn, to be let or fold. Pnfleflion will
be gi»; 11 the Ift of June Best. Enquire of the
Fk.mßf.
March i;
Last PMic Ball far tbe present Season*
Mr. FRANCIS
Respectfully informs Lis Scholars and
the Public in generaft, that his last PußliC
Hall will he" on Tfrefday, April ift, at the
Room in South Fourth Street. Jn which wtfi
be introduced an entire; new set of CotillioHi*
Cimpafed hy Mr. Francis, called '
Les Delices D'Amerique.
ift The FaOiior^
ad, The Military,
The Bath C Strathlpey
4th. The Rage { Heel
Compcfed entirely of the favourite Scotch
P.epss. Also,
Two New Country Dances
For the present Scalon, called
The Muhc bf the Medley is fcle&ed from the
moil admired Country Dances.
* J* At- addition 3 i is engaged to play
the New Dane e*. •
$y Children that are not Pupils cannot be
admitted.
Mr. F. infpnr.s his Pupils that a Pra&ifing
will take place on Saturday evening, at which
he requcfU [heir punctual attendance, in order
to be perfect in the new dances for the BaH.
N B. —Mr F. begs leave i„> remind his
Scholars ;nd the public -in general, that after
the iQ, or April fie *ilf remove his Acadeir.ytO
Harmony Court where he will attend to five
inftru&ion In the an of dajjdfeg, at his ufuall
rave of 5 dollar* per month.
March #5. d 6%
RUSH-LIGHT
Will br published next Wednesday nwrr.ing.
gjp At a rr.bft tyrannical attempt has been made
to iuppreis the i'alc and put a *? ep- to the circula
tion of this Werk,*« Philadelphia ; and,as it it ap
prehended that those, in the city, who "hatethe
light, because their deeds are evil." will Aicceed in
intimidating the bookfellcr# so far to prevent
tjhtm Item leiling ; this is to give notice, that a«y
Pbilaielphiariy who still wishes to fee the truth,'(hall
b« fupt'licd with the RUSH LIGHT rcguiarly by
pest, and that I will pay the postage.
The money mud be paid in adiiana; but this
may be very easily managed. Five gentlemen. for
instance, may join together, and fend on a five
dollar rote, upon the receipt of which credit will
be given to each of them fer four Numbers which
will be regularly lent on, the moment they are
pnbliPied.
This puts one in mind of the means formerly
made uie otto Ileal books fr mfree states intodef*
potic ones. What (Irange things come about in
his world !
March 24
THE AXTI-JAC.QBIN
REVIEW AND MAGAZINE;
A few copies of the above work are receiv*
ed and for sale at Dickina't Bookfccrc, opposite
*Chrift Church.
March *4. (U
JOSEPH ANTHONY, & £o.
At their Store No. 5 Cbesnut Street, have
Mar A 44.
ALL nerfons indebted to the eftatc of JOHN
RHQADS, late of this city, deccafed, are
requested to make immediate pay ment and tho/b
having accounts against the lame, to bring them
in, duly attested, for payment to
March 24,
TWO STORY BRICK HOUSE,
With a Lot thereunto belonging,
SITUATE in Duck Creek, Cross Roads
Kent County, State or Dtlaware, fronting
on the M-in Street i there'are on the , er
Floor, £ve Raoms and an Entry, with a
number at well fini*hod Rooms up Stairs, a
Cellar under the whole Building, a Brick kitch
en, a tump of good Water, with a Stable, Car
riage House and Sheds, the whole Improvements
are in good repair. The Seat is well calculated
for either a Store or Tavern, the latter of which
it "has been occupied for z number of years with
considerable fuqeefs. The tituation is dry and
the Country around being very healthy and a
plice of considerable Trade, it will he well
worth the attention of any person wishing to
purcluie or rent.
£5" For further particulars apply to the Sub
fctiber at the aiorefaid place.
January 8
feri 3 t.
AN attachment was lately iftued out of the in
terior Gsurt of common pleas of the county
of lifl'ex, in the state of New Jerfcy, directed to
the IherifF of the said county, againfl the rights,
credits, monies anu cffecfls, goods and chattel*,
lands and tenements of John Cten>es Symmes at the
suit of William Wells, in a plea of trespass on the
cafe to hrs damage threethoufand dollars; —
And iultereas, the said Iheriff did, at ths term of
June laftpaic, return to the laid court that he had
attached the defendant by a certain bbnd given by
Matthias Denman and Samuel Mcelter to the laid
defendant, to the amount of near two thoul'and
dollars, a;, d alfoby sixty land warrants
Race Strut Wharf \
dst..'
A'iev/ therefore, nnlefs rhc faijl John Clevcs
Symmt'B (ha:l appear give special bail, and receive
a declaration at the suit of the plaintiff, judgment
will be entered against. him, and his property
herein attached, will be fold agreeably to the
llatute in such cafe made a*d prov : dcd.
Aaron Ogden, Clerk,
Elizabeth-town, July 8,1799
e«6w,
i\Tr. FRANCIS'S
The First of April,
AND
The Philadelphia Medley,
No. 11l
OF THE
OK,
Monthly Political and Literary
CENSOR.
FOR' SALE,
The following Articles, viz.
Fir ft quality Rulfia, Hemp
Ruflia Duck
Brandy in pipes, firft and fourth proof
Madeira Wibein pipes and half pipe#
Claret in cases
Winter and Summer prriTei, Spermaceti Oil
Spermaceti Candeis, and
Hyson Tea, latefc importation
NOTICE.
HACHEL UHOADS, Admin'tx.
No. 19 North Third street.
TO BE SOLD,
Or Rented for a term of Tears,
A LARGE
JOHN CUMMINGS.
WHEREAS,
•f
mwfjm
iiW'3ni.