FHevald of the Times,
T NEWPORT,
THURSDAY MORNING, JUNE 80, 1831
Nutional Republican Convention Nowii=
nation, for Ropresentatives in the
Twenty-therd Congress,
DUTEE J, PEARCYE, of Newport,
TRISTAM BURGES, of Frovidence,
1P We are compelled to exelude our marine
list, several adyertisements,and a considerible va
riety aleeady in typoe for this day’s paper.
The Jackson folks held a Convention
in this town last week, for the purpose
of nominating candidates for Congress;
—Dbut after holding two seeret conclaves,
they determined that it was inexpedient
to make a nomination. They finally
closed the farce by passing resolutions
approbatory of Jackson'’s administration,
and nominated the General for re-clee
tion—he must, therefore, be re-clected,
Isprreespesce, On Monday next
will be celebrated throughout this land,
the great political sabbath of the freest
and happiest people on the eaith, The
particulars ol the order of the celebra
tion in this place, we are reluctantly o
bliged to omit for want of room,
Teamreenascr, We conchide i this
day'’s vaper the publication of a very
able and highly interesting discourse,
delivered by Dr. Usher Parsons of
Urovidence, before the Temperance
Society of that place. Dr. Parsons is
too distinguished in his profession, and
as a literary wan also, to need any en
comiums from us; and the subject upon
which he treats is so vitally interesting
to the world, that we feel assured no
apology will be expected from us for
having occupied so much of our paper
with matter taken from his address, |
The “Rhode-Island Republican” ed
ited and controlled by some Lalf a dozen
Jackson men in Newport, and else
where, & the “Republican ( Providence)
lerald,” published by W, Simons, Ju
ntor, and edited by Wi, Simons, Seaior,
have really put their niterary heads to
gether and driven us; as they vainly sup
pose, “to the wall,” where, we presume,
they would be glad to “bait us” until we
should be completely satiated with their
“latle litevary” productions, and will
ing to yield and give up the fight, and
cry out “enough.” But my good gen
tlemen, your *“liltle klerary” performan
ces will not frighten us over much—nor
shall we be frightened if we shall behold
you with horns appended to your scunccs,'
which by the by, would be very becom
ing to some of you. The Providence’
Herald feeling a great regard for his
“hrother Read” takes up the cudgel in
his behalf for the purpose of blowing us
“gky high,” and “brother R.”” (or some
body cls¢) following the advice of his
sage counscllor, indulges in all sorts of
Llackguardism toward us in the most
shameless terms. This, however, does
not surprise us much, coming as it does
from men engaged in such a cause. We
had as lieve be called “blockheads™ by
men of the grade and stamp of those
from whom thut article emanaled, as by
any other name; and we are not aware
that we should suffer materially by a
comparison of the depth and magnifude
of our pericraniums, The author of the
articles referred to in the last Republi
can purports to be the “printer and pub
lisher,” inasmuch as no other name ap-
pears to answer for “our humble scltf””
Although we know the gentleman too
well to sunction that belicf—(not doubt-|
ing, however, his capacity to write swhi
an article,) yet is it not surprising t!mt:
one, who it was but a short time ago con
ceded, not only by himself but by the,
jcaders of the Juckson party in this tnwn,l
had no controf over its columns \\*lmtcv-l
er, should so soon be willing to ns.mnu"
the authorship of an article so much to|
the reverse of his avowed political senti- |
ments, saying nothing about his |)crsnlm|!
seclings and inclinations? The nlmsc:
heaped upon the supposcd author of an
article in our last paper under the head
of “Curiosity,” is altogether misapplied
and untimely, We make no pretensions
to literary fame, nor do we set oursclves
up as “one of the illuminati,” still we
have the vauity to think, as well as the
satislaction to know, that we can, and
“do, manage our own press in oour own
way,~—the ridiculous and infamous sur
mises of the “editor” of the Rhode-ls-
Jand Republican to the contrary not
withstanding. Although we despise this
gpecies of warfure as mueh as any other
person ¢y yet we are not to be aunoyed
and driven from owr post, especially by
a pack of blood-hounds who are ever rea
dy to devour private character with an
eagerness well suited to thew carnivo
rous appotites, '
One word as to the allusion we made
in our last to the “little sub vice roy’s”
being the leading gquill driver in the
Republican oflice, We say with per
feet conlidence we conuitted no wiis
tuke upon that .\,‘u'lljm'!. To conceal
himselly we grant, he may oecasionally
have some of his effusions copied by
Yone ol his oflicial associates”—but
tis will not answer; for we can most
readily identity any thing and every,
thing that emanates frem the “little
sub,” because the “mark of the !mnst”t
i 3 stamped all over his “little Titerary”
productious, e may deem it \'ur_v|
presumptuous in us to undertulie to mea
sure spears with a gentleman of his
distinguished attainments —acquired
priucipally as they have been, by board
g and lodging three years, in what
Mr, Potter calls the “great brick house
i Providence”—micaning Brown Uni
versity We don’t know but it may be so
—but ut all "events we say to the “litle
sub” that ulthough we can boast of but
little more than what is somctines called
a “street” education, and having learnt
what little we do know of the English
Language as some persons lears to
fiddley yet we will undertake to write
with the “little sub,” fur a wager—name
your sun.
Attorney General Berrien has resign
cd his honors, as will be seen by the
correspondence we this day publish.—
The President has not yet been able to
find a successor to that oflice. Why
don’t he look about in Rhode-Island
he has a political friend in Newport of
high legal attainments; who might be
induced to accept the place.
' 3 Why did not the *little sul”
il'ulluw up the motto of his paper, “hear
‘lbolh sides and then determine,” by
publishing the unclean correspondence
‘between his late friends Eaton and
ngham, before he undertook to abuse
Mr. Ingham. One menth ago, and the
"‘litllt# sub” would have bit his own
nose ofl' sooner than to have lisped a
!wunl against the Seccretary of the
CTreasury .
Man Doacs. The very frequent and
alarming accounts received from almost
every direction in the country, of the
:Idvmhs that have been caused by these
i:miuml.~:, is calculated to make one
shudder whenever he passes one of
‘them. We should be glad to have this
town cleared of these worse than uscless
'pests, and destroyers of human life.
Mre. Alkinson,— A correspondent in
the Rhode Island Republican, quires
why there are so many vacations i our
Public School? The vacations are re
gulated by the School Committee, not
by the teachers, and 1 believe it is gcn-'
erally acceded that the teachers i'.'lith-‘
fully perform their duty : no one who has
given the least attention to the sul»joct,‘
but must admit their exertions have been
unwearied, and no lubour spared on
their part to benefit the rising gcnuru-'
tion; much of it is gratuitous, for which
they ask no remuncration, but for whi«:h!
they are at least entitled to the thauks of
the commuuity. L. |
So large a portion of this day pupcri
is occupicd with the Correspondence of
the renowned kx-Scerctaries,that we arc:
otliged to confine ourselves to a very
brief summary of the proceedings of
the General Assembly during the three
last days of the session,
' On Thursday morning, both louses
Joined in grand committee, to complete
the clection of the civil and wilitary ofhi
cers of the State. The oflicers of the
last year, with a few exceptions, were
re-clected without opposition,
- The tollowing were among the prin
‘cipal appointinents:—
- Justices of the Court of Common Pleas
Aor the County of Kent—Obed Perkins,
‘chief; Thos. W. Greene, 2d; Elisha
Whitman, 3d; 1. Brown, 4th; J. J. 'T'l
linghast, sth.
Washington==Jogeph Potter, sth Jus
tico, |
i Providence—The choice of 4th Jus
tice, was postponed to next session.
- John Brown was chosen Clerk of the
Comt of Common Pleas for the county
lof Kent,
: Samuel Coggeshall, Clerk of the Su
preme Judicial Court for the county of
Dristol.
- Militia Officers.—Tevi Haile, of War
ren, Major General, in place of Gener
‘al Carpenter, resigned.
- Edwin Wilbur, Brig. General of the
first Brigade, in place of Gen, Stacey,
resigned,
' Wm, Lyon, was chosen Colonel of the
st regiment,
l No Licut, C'ol, was appointed.
- John S, Weeden, was appointed ma
jor.,
A bill passed in amendment of an act
‘relative to pnblic gchools, authorizing
the General Treasurer to distribute the
finds of the regpective towns i propor
tion to theie population, under Gilteen
HERALD OFTHE TIMES,
years of age. The former law made the
distribution in proportion to the popula
tion under sixteen,
A Wil passcd i the House June 21th,
1530, relative to principuls, agents and
fuctors, was returncd by the Senate with
thew concurrence,
An act passed reduchg the wilitia
fines from 7 to %2,
The jurisdiction to three acres of land
in South Kingston was ceded to the Uni
ted States, tor the erection of u light
IN Use,
A act for the temporary relief of insol
vent debtors, agrecable to the report of
the Committee, passed. Tt gives a liber
ation from jail, and stay ol procecdings,
to all petitioners, who have taken the
poor debtor’s oathy and are detained in
Juil by the advance of money, and allows
all other petitioners who niay herealter
be committed to Jail to go at lurge on
bond, provided they take the oath, und
money is leit to detain them,
Aun act imposing the nceessity of a
license on all venders of lottery tickets,
passed,
~ An act passed taxing all the banks on
the increase of their capital 2 1-2 por
cent, !
Charters were granted to the Arcade
Bank, and the Weybosset Bank, they
paying therefore us a bonus to the State
1 1-2 per cent on $200,000 capital, and
2 1-2 on mcrease to 200,000 dollars.
An act pussed authorising the Manu
facturers Bank in Pawtucket to remove
to Providence,
The act passed in June, 1828, author
ising the State of Massachusetts, or any
company incorporated by that State to
construct a ratl road trom Providence to
Maussachusetts line was repealed,
All militia ofhicers were allowed 60
days from the rising of the Asscmbly, to
tuke their engagements,
Messrs, Hazard, Pratt, Rhodes, Taile,
and K. R, Potter, were appointed a com
mittee to report an Insolvent law for the
State, at the next session,
The commuuication of Hon, Mr Rob
bins, relative to the north boundury line
of' the State, wasrelerred to B, Hazard,
Speaker,Rhodes, K. R, Potter & Haile.
Messrs. Simmons, Potter and Greene
were appointed a committee te report on
the expediency of reducing the salary
and compensation of the Seecrctary of
State, and the Clerks of the Courts.
T'he masonic memorial was not culled
up nor acted on,
The Assembly adjourned, to meet in
South Kingstown the last Monday in
October, according to law,
New-Yonrk, June 28.
We announced a few days ago that the
oflice of Attorney General was vacant
on the 15th inst. "T'he following corres
pondence between Tue Presivest and
the Arrorney GENERAL, on the subject,
speaks for itself:—
From the U, 8. "Telegraph.
- THEATTORNEY GENERAL,
|
é Wasmingron, 15th June, 1831,
| Sk I herewith tender to you my
resignation of the oflice of’ Attorney Gen
eral of the United States. T'wo consid
~erations restrained me from taking this
step ut the moment when your communi
~cation to the Secretary ot the T'reasury
“announcing your determination to re-or
| gfnuzc your cn!n_uct,_ first inet my cyc.—-.
There was nothing i the retirement of
the Secretaries of State and of War, or
“in the distinet and personal considera
tions which they had assigned for this
measure, W hich made it obligatory upon,
or even proper for me to adopt a similar
course, Such astep, with any reference
to that occurrence, could only become
so, on my part, as an act of conformity
to your will. You had felt this, and had
‘ announced your wishes to the Secretar-
Jies of the Treasury and of the Navy, re
speetively, I had a right to expect a
sunilar comnmunication ot them, and con
formed to the wishes and opinions of my
! fellow citizens of Georgia when 1 deter
‘mined to await it. An additional con
- sideration was presentedby the fact that
I had been charged, the moment of my
’ departure trom this place, with the per
formance of certain public duties which
“were yet unfinished, and my repoit con
| cerning which you did not expect to re
; ceive until my return. I was gratified
to learn from yourseltf that you had ta-
I ken the same view ol this subject, hav
ing postponed the communication of your
} wishes to me until my arrival at this place
without expecting in the mean time any
“communication fromme. Itisdue to my
sell” further to state, that the moment
when 1 saw the communication referred
to, 1 have considered my ofticial relation
to you as terminated, or as subsisting on
ly until my return to the city should en
able me to conform to your wishes by
the formal surrender of my oflice, which
it is the purpose of this note to make.
-1 retire, then, sir, with cheerfulness
fiom the station towhich your confidence
had called me, because | have the con
sciousness ol having endeavored to dis
churge its duties with fidelity to your
selt and to the country. Uninfluenecd
by those considerations which have been
avowed by that portion of my colleagnes
who have voluntarily separated them
selves from you—totally ignorant of any
want of harmony in your cabinet, which
cither has, orought to have impeded the
operations of’ your administration, | per
form this act simply in obedience to your
will. 1 have not the shghtest disposi
tion to diseuss the question of its proprie
ty: Itis true that in a government like
oursy, power is but a trust to be used for
the benelit of those who have delegated
it; and that circumstances might exist
i which the necesaity ot sclt’ vindica-
tion would justify such an inquiry, The
first consideration belongs to those to
whom we are both and equally account
able. From the influence of the second
you have relieved me by yvour own ex
phicit declaration that no complaint al
tectivg cither my ofiiciul or individual
conduct has at any time reached you,
You have assured nie that the conli
dence which induced you miginally to
confer the appointinent upon e, remuing
unshaken and undiminished, and have
been pleased to express the regret which
you feel at the separation, which eircumn
stances have, in your view ol the sub
jeet, rendered unavoidable, You have
kindly added the assurance of your con
tinued good wishes formy welfare, You
will naty therefore, vefuse to me the grat
ification of expressing my carnest hope,
that, under the influence of better coun
sels, your own and the interests of our
common country iy receive all the
benefits which you have anticipated from
the cliange of your coufidential adyisers,
A very lew dayvs will suflice to enable
me 1o put my office ina condition for the
reception of my successor, and 1 will ad
vise you of the fuct as soon as its ar
rangement is complete,
1 am, respectfully, Siv,
| Your obcdient serv't,
JN. MACPHERSON BERRIEN.
T'o the President of the United States
Wasmixarox, June 15th, 1831,
Siw—l Lave received vour letter re
signing the oflice of Attorney General,
Iu the conversation which I held with
you, the day before vesterday, upon this
subject, it was my desire to present to
you the considerations upon which 1 act
el inaccepting the resignation of the
other members of the cabinet, and to as
sure you,in regard to yourselt) as well as
to them, that they imply no dissatisfaction
with the manner in which the duties of
the respective departiients have been
performed. It atlords me great pleasure
to find that you have not misconcceived
the character of'those considerations, and
that you do justice to the personal fecl
ings with which they are unconnected.
? I will ouly udd, that the determination
to change my cabinet was dictated by an
Amperious sense of public duty, and a
thorough, though painful conviction, that
the stewardship of power, with which 1
ium clothed, called for it as a mecasure
‘of Justice to those who had been alike
invited to maintain near me the relation
lol‘ confidential advisers,—-Perceiving
that the harmony in feeling so necessary
to an efficient administration had failed,’
lin a considerable degree, to mark the
(course of this; and having assented on
\this account, to the voluntary retirement
!ot'tlm Secretaries of State and War, no
‘alternative was left me but to give this
qassent a latitude co-extensive with the
‘embarrassments which it recognized, and
ithe duty which I owed to cach mewmber
‘of the cabinet,
In accepting your resignation as At
torney General, I take pleasure in ex
pressing my approbation of the zeal and
cthiciency with which its duties have'
been performed, and in assuring vou that
you carry with you my best wishes for,
your prosperity and happiness. ,
; I am very respectfully, |
| Your obedient servant. 1
! ANDREW JACKSON.
Joux M. Burriny, lisq. |
.S. You will please to continue to
discharge the duties of the oflice of At
torney Gieneral until you make all those
arrangements which you may deem nee
essary, which, when completed, and 1
am notified thereof by you, a successor
Iwill be appointed. A J.
Wasimizaroy, June 22, 1831,
Sir—ln conformity to the suggestion
contained in my note of the 15th wstant,
I bhave toinform you that the arrange
ments necessary to put the ofiice of the
Attorney General in a condition for the
reception of my successor are now com
plo~w.
. "T'he misrepresentations which are cir
culated in the newspapers on the subject
of my retirement from oflice, make it
proper that this correspondence should
be submitted to the public, as an act of
justice both to you and myself. {’
[ I am, respecttully, Sir, i
i Your obedient servaut. ;
O JN.MACPHERSON BERRIEN.
I'o the President of the United States, |
' Wasiivaron, June 22, 1831
| Sir—Your note of this day is received,
advising me, *in conformity to the sug
gestions contained 1 my (your) note of
‘the 15th inst, 1 (you) have to inform yon
(me) that the arrangements necessary to
put the oftice of the Atterney Generalin
a condition for the reception of my suc
cessor is now complete.”
For reasons assigned in your note,
vou further observe *“make it proper that
this correspondence should be submitted
to the public, as an act of justice both to
vou and mysel(.” lam sure I can have
no objection to your subntting them as
you propose asyou believe this to be
necessery, I am, respecttully
~ Your obedient servant,
ANDREW JACKSON,
Jous M. Berriey, Lsq.
BRIGUTON MARKET, Monday, June 27
RECORKTED FOR THE BOSLON PATHION
At market this day 111 Beef Cattle,
(mecluding 25 unsold last week) 9 Cows
and Calves, and 1642 Sheep and Lambs;
and about 100 small pigs and a few old
Swine,
I’
e
T
'8
B
r
0
¥
(A
AT
‘1
JFo—
-1
n
c
0
ne
Qe
quence of the lunited number at market
an advance of about 23 ie per hundred
was eflected—we shall quote from 4 75,
to 579, .
Cowsann Crrves— Sales wore notic
ed at Sl5, 19,21, and 28, -
Sueer asp Lases—We noticed sales
of Jots at <173, at 188, at 2 00, at 225,
nnd at 2 33—Wethers ut 2 124, at 2 50,
and at 300,
Soive-—Nosales noticed, '
g 7 dnoour last week’s Report the
number of Beet Cattle should have been'
251 wstewd of 331 as reported, [
————— A SIS, A 5 S S————
MARRIKD, l
In this town, on the 19th inst, hy the Rev. Mr,
Pddy, Mr. Pardon Browu, to Miss Sarah Sanford,
davghter of Capt, Peleg Sanford all of Middietown,
lu Nuntuchet, Mr. Joseph Congdow of this
town to Miss Phebe Wood
- 2 S
DIED, |
1 Middletown, on Friday last, M, Fsther
Peclihim, wite of Augustus Pechham, bsq. ufter
o distressing illuess of 4 few weeks, aged 36
VOIS,
" At Poston the 27th, Mrs. Ellen D. Boit, |
widow of Cupt. Johu Boit, formerly of this town,
aged 51 years
SUMMER GCGOODS,
NATHAN'L SWEET,
} NO. 112, |
| Curar Stot— Thames Street, I
“ AR Just reccived a fiesh supply of very
- cheap goods, of varions descriptions, |
Among them are 200 veal good hindierchiefs
for only 12 12 cents each; cotton, thread, silk
aud wool hose, randum ditto from 25 cents cach
puiry to 2 dollars, o good assortinent; fans feather,
pidileal and paper: silks, Gros de Derlin, Flor
ence and India Swsbaws, Twlion and Fresch
Nilks, changeable do.: children’s gloves and hose,
a searce adticle to be found; an elegant assort
ment of Prints, from 12 12 cents to 75 eonts
per yard, cheap. Also, French carded musling,
ginghams, a splendid assortment, Palmarreans,
Oscannies and Beverteens: Calupuleys, &e.; ele
gant mourning prits and ginghams; bedspreads
for only 51,256 each: English and French
drilling; *a very hand=ome ot of Vesting: nn
elegant assortient off Mernmo Shawls; raw silk,
barage,——crape,—und gauze haudherclicts ;
ribbous, &c. e ;
BONNE'TS, |
Dimond, Boxford and plain - Straw, Smlinl
Straw an elegant new pattern; Leghorne and
Nuvarinoes, cheap,
A CARD.
(‘IR MARCHAN'T respectfully begs leave to
AV R ofier his services to the citizens and visit
ers of Newport as an ARTIST.—Being much a
stranger here, he relies solely on the character of
his pictures as a pussport to their notice and en
ovuragement., )
Any inquiries made of Mr. M. ut the Bellevue
Hotel, will be by him attended to with much pleas
gure whether verbally or otherwise.
June 30th,
NEW STCRE AND
NEW GOODS.
Vl‘ HOMASNS FOWLER JR. begs
leave to inform the inhabitants of Newport
and its vieinity, that he has taken the Store No.
’l."l-l Thames Street, (next north of the store now
oceupied by 8. Newton,) where he will this day
open a complete assortment of
FANCY AND STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Of the most fishionable patterns—all of which
shall be wold at prices that cannot fuil 1o suit
purchasers, Customers are respoctfully invited to
call. dw. Newport, June 30,
TEETIL.
‘I)(N"'I‘. MOORE will attend to filling, filing,
g dressing and various other operations on
the TEVTH, on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Satur
davs, between the hours of 8 and 12 4. m. at his
office, No. 93 'Thames-street, ‘
TEETH, l
At all times extraeted in the most careful manner,
und astruents are provided for renoving the
roots of such as are oo much decayed w aduit of
extraction in the ordinary mode, and for cutting
thein level with the juw, when this operation is
necesary, June 30th.
’ TEAS.
W = o IMPERIAL GUNPOW
"'"""’J DER in canisters of 24 Ihs. ench,
%I."‘ Just imported i ship PanamagH yvson,
Lyl Young Hyson, Hyson-BKkin, Sou
choug aud Pouchong TEAS, for sale by
SO NEWTON,
No. 150 Thaues-stroet,
June 30th,
W. CALLAITAN'S,
Book-Store and Circulating Library,
Nao 110, Tuames-sT.
English, French, Greek, & Latin
SCHOOL BOOKS,
of all Kinds in use in thistown & vicinity
FOR SALE AS AROVE
AT REDUCED PRICES.
June 30,
CINLDREN'S STRAW BONNETS
\ new assortment just received,
2 ALSO, one case of ladies Dunstable leghorn
braid, and Doxtords. b Sk
JENNET DRUMMOND
June 30th
BROWN STOUT. i
l' ONDON PORTER, of an exeellent” quali-
A tyv, by the Cask or dozen, for sale at S,
NEWTON S, No. 150, Thames-street, ,
W Amarican PORTER, daily expeeted, at
reduced prices, Juus 30, l
\ . v
| NEWPORT BANK.
'l‘lllf ecrmi-annnal dividend of this Bank will he
pavable on Friday the fiest day ol July neat.
1 he transter hook will he elosed on the 25th inst.
T By vider of the P'resident & Directors,
June 21, J. WILLIAMS, Jr. Cush'r.
JUST RECEIVED & FOR SALE Y
| v v
JOIIN DENNIS,
Nu. 9, Washington Square,
‘l“" FSH Teas of the last New York Tmpoita
tions: Wine<Vinegar, of first quality—on
hand as usnal a genernl assortment of GROCE
RIES, CHINA, GLARR & LARMTHEN WARL.
June 28d
: AT AUCTION
On Monday, July 18,
' \ valnable ot of land, forwerly bolonging to
¥ the lite Constant Taber, Faq. situated on
Prospect HHIL wlittle to tee custwiard of the resi
dence of the Rov. Johin O, Choules, l'erms, &c.
at the sale, N. SWLET, Auct'r.
June 234
-._”
NEW RBOOKS.
The Church Members Guide by J. A. James, A.
M.—edited by Rev. J. O, Choules, Newport, 1
vol.
Litation of Christ by Thomas A, Kempis, 1 vol.
edited by Rev. Howard Malcom, Eoston.
The Saints Everlusting Rest, by Rev, R, Baxter.
The Christian Conteniplated in a course of Lec
tures—hy Rev. W, Jov, 1 vol.
The Trevels of 1" w 2 Godliness by rev.Renj. Keach
revised and improved by Rev. Howard Malcow;
1 vol,
Mewwirs of Howard the Philanthropist, by Jumes
Buldwin Brown, abiidged, 1 vol.
FOR BALE AT
| W. Callahan’s Book-Store,
& CIRCULLATINGLIBRARY.
Auction SHale.
SUMNMVMIER ARRANGENMNMENT
'l‘llli Boston, Taunton and Fall River Mail
Stuge, leaves Newport every Mouday,
Wednesday, and Friday at 5 o'clock, arrives at
Full River at 8 o'clock—Dinex in Sharon ut 2 o'~
clock, and arrives i Boston at 5. Leaves every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday at 7 o'cloek—
dines in Taunton at 1 o’ clock—arrives i Boston
at 6 o'clock, Stage books kept at Mr. Town
send's. Fore to Fuall River, %15 to Taunton,
~“'2.' to Boston »3.
RETTURNING—Leaves Boston every day ut
5 o'clock—dines at Fall River at 2 o'clock——ar
rives in Newport at 6 o’clock. Books kept at
Shepard's, Broowtield st
T'he above line is connected with the New-Bed
ford stage, at Fall River. Fare to New-Bedford
two dollars,
The Providence Mail Stage leavos Fall River
every Tuesday, Thorsduy and Saturday at 11 o'
cloek., Fare two dollurs,
Fxtra earviages furnished at any time, by apply
g loSrasLiy & TENNANT.
RUFUS B. KINSLEY, Agent,
June N,
TOTHECONSUMERS & VEN
DERS OY SCHUYLKILL
COAL IN NEWPORT AND
ITS VICINITY.
Prurnavenrina June Ist, 1831,
VI‘IH'. subscriber is extensively engaged in min
ing Anthracite coal in Schuylkill countys,
(Penn,) and from the extent of his landed interest
in that region, s enabled to furnish the article ot
superior quality and on the best terimns: he will aup
ply Sehuylkill coul delivered on his lunding at Lo
cust street, on the river Schaylkill, free from -
purity or slate at = 4,50 cts. per ton of’ 2240 Ibs. or
he will engage to deliver it at any of the wharves
in the town of Newport, at #6 per ton: the quan
tity tuken to be not less thaw a cargo; when tha
price at which this deseripiton of conl has hereto
fore old in Newport, and the very great saving
that will result from an arrangement with the sul
seriber 1= taken into consideration, he trusts thit
the ditlerence in cost will irduce those feeling un
interest in having their supplies on the best teruis,
to favor him with their orders.—T'erms of pay -
ment 4 months for approved paper ot three po
cent discount for cash, Satisfactory reference
will be given (us to the ability of the subseribor 1o
conformn o any arrangement he may wnke if 1o
quired.)*
SAMUEL P. WETHERILL,
No. 126, Arch street, Phil.
NEW MUSIC.
\ great variety of the newest o imost fushion -
4 able pieces, songs, &e. including selectio:
from the admired opera of Cinderilla, tor sale Ly
W. CALLAIIAN. Jl4
| S {)l‘-‘ .’\ So
Fl'.\"l' RECEIVED AND FOR SALE twa
eF good SOFAS, Hair cloth spring seats, by
' M. HALL.
‘ June 23d.
FINLE DUNSTABLLE BONNETS,
/'7 e
B N
G sv.
i P [
eJA 0y Z Il
of
& . A 3
e
2
)
o dl
y UST received by
® JENNET DRUMMOND.
June 23d
ELEGJUNT SUMMER GOODS,
JUST OPENED AND FOR SALE RBY
E. K. NEWTON,
No. 158, Thames-streect
A LONSISTING of a variety of silks, ginghane,
( ©prints, and muslins for dresses-~faney hand
kerchiels, scarts, blk lasting, princetta, Brochella,
bomhazivs stormant and Mexican mixtures, with a
desirnble lot seasonable goods. oy
June 8.
RICHRIBBONDS'BLOND,
GAUZE & STRAW, AN
FANCY MUSLINS.
are Just opencd at
TILLEY’S.
WANTED,
4 second hand No. 2 & 3 POSTLEY COOR
ING STOVES, square pattern, for which a
fuir price will be given i cash by
June 234 M. HALL.
MATTRASSES.
! 'l)(ll'l".ﬁ and single Moss MATTRASSES,
d for enle hy M. HALL
I June 20d