SELECTIONS.
{TLc followi"g, if the Lrious reader will pardon the
prtphaue exclamation of die libertine, is one of the
muff txquiliu repartees which can be found in any
iauguage )
I A buck chanc’d tu meet a young be2irti;'al Maid,
Her cheek like the rofe in full bluiTnm array’d,
And faia, with J'gnificant nod,
(Whi.e drawing her veil with great boldnefs afidc)
* B} G*-d, ma'am) ou’r painted!” *• Tis true flic re
plied,
I am indeed painted—by Gud.
The following pafTage from a lportjve epinie of Robert
Burns to his friend Nicol i not unworthy thcgaytft
:»«nntr of Sterne. It rr.ufl be remembered too that
tt w?$ written without the i tmotcll idea of its ever
reaching the Erefs.
O theu, wiled among the wife, meridian
Maze of prudence, full moon of diferetion, and
I chief of many counfeliors. How it finite is thy
puddle headed, rattleheaded, wrong headed,
round headed (lave, indebted to thy i« per emi
nent gcodnefs, that from the luminous path of
thy own tight lined rcflituJc, thou looksd be
nignly down on an erring wretch, of v^hom the
fcig zag wandcrii gs defy all the powers of cal
culation from the ftmple coupling of units, cp
to the hidden myilcrics of a fluxion.
LITERATURE,
THE ARTS AST) SCIE'CT?.
MR. BROWNE’S travels in Afric i> Syria
and Egypt, have appeared in Lond r. and ex*
cited much public attention. He begins b>'
apologizing unnecefTarily for any deie't in Lis
compofitior?, which is always accurate, never
confufed, and often fpirted ar.d elegant. Alter
pointing out the inforn.at:on that can be found
at Cairo, and explaining the objeft of his jour,
nej from thence, he mentions fomc in portan*
papers wh'ch were loll at Alexandria, perhaps
vhtn the French Lized that city ; and he gives
an account of the now interrupted intercourfe
b.tween Egypt and AbyfTin’a. That Bruce
had been at Gondar.had been favoured by the
King, and intruded with the Government of
the prcvince cf Ras el-Fd, Mr. Brown found
to be true ; but all his informants agreeJ that
Bruce never hid vilited the AbylTinian fource
of the Nile.
The preface is doled wuh lome oofervations
On the caufes cf error in African geography,
and an apology for f>rre innr vations in ortho
graphy, calculated to produce more ol the real
Oriental form and found, as Kahira for Cairo,
•See.
Mr. Browne arriveJ in Egypt on the roth
of Janury. 179i. About a month afterward*
he proceeded to Siwa, in the defrrt, in crder
to difeover the f»mous Temple of Jupiter
Ammon. He returned to Alexandria, and
ihence repaired to RalaiJ, cr Roftttd, and to
the Natron Lakes. The Capital cf Egypt and
the fmgular government ol that country, were
the next objefb of his attention, and »are de
icribed with great care and abT'ty ; his lkrll in
the Arabic, and accefi to the Beys, having
farndlied him with many new fafts and obfer.
vaiions.
Intending to penetrate into Abyfiinia, he
began his voyage up the Nile. in October, 1792,
and his defeription of Upper Egypt, unvoted
by Volney and Savary, forms a very interefting
feature of his book. At AiTuan, or Syene, he
found that a war had broleen out between the
j3eys of Upper Egypt and the Cachef of Ibrim ;
and, all further progrefs being precluded by
that unforefecn event, he was contained to re
urn.
From Ghenne he vifited CoiTr, a port on the
Red Sea. Some recent occurrences at
Kahira occupy the next chapter ; which is fol
[owed by a curious difiertation on the perfons
and complexion of the ancient Egyptian?, de
mondrating that they were n^t negroes, as
Volney conjectured, with no lefts abfurdity than
when he attempted to prove that jefus Chrift
never exifted !
A journey to Ferume is accompanied with
an infpeftion of the lake Maris, a difeuffion
concerning the Oaf:? parva, and an account of
the pyramids, in which ft me recent errors con*
cerning thefe vafi: cdiflcies arc obviated.
In Ihort, no ftriking peculiarity in Egypt has
efcaped Mr. Browne’s attention ; and even on
objects often deferibed, he ever throws the fu
perior light of a more eager inquiry alter truth,
and a more drift regard to accuracy.
In a Ihort chapter he narrates his journey
to Sinai, and his return to Kahira. The an
cient canal of Suez, between the Nile and the
Red Sea, is examined and diicuffed.
At length, in May i 793, he commenced his
progrefs into the interior of A.rica, joining the
Soudan caravan, he travelled through El wah,
or the Oans Magna [a region in itfelf almolb
unknown to European travellers.] and through
vaft deferts, where ma'7 cf the camels perifhed
for want of water, till his expedition terminated
in the kingdom of Dar Fur, unvifited before
by any European whatever. Six long and in.
terefling chapters prefent an ample detail con
cerning this curious and important region ;
where Mr. Brown was obliged, by the capri
cious fultan, to rema n nearly three \ears, tho*
he ardently wifhed to extend his difeoveries to
the fouth or well. In March 1796, he was
graciouily permitted to return to Egypt.*
The account cf Da Fur is followed by a
chapter of medical obfcrvations, on difeafcs
prevalent in Africa and ihe call, which are re
p’e c with new and original intelligence.
In December 1795. Mr. Brown proceeded
from Kahira to Damiait; and he gives a viv<d
and entertauiiag account of this part of Egypt.
From Darr.iatt he faiVJ to Yaffe cr Joppa ;
and af erwards v fired tbe mill remarka! le
places of Paleftine and Pyria ; which having
been olten deferred, 1 e is con'cnted to ofier a
few remarks cr dtta Is of recent tranfaftions.
Alter refiding fume months in Syria, our
traveller 1/a new route, pierced through the
center of Anatoli^, by KaEaiia, and Angora,
to Conftantinople, he directed h’s ccurfe to 1
England, and arrived in London on the 16th
of Sept. 1798, after ar. abfence of nea ly feven
years.
Such is the outline of this journey which
vies with any land tcur deferibed either in an
cient or modern times. The learning, the a
bility, and the lingular opportunities of the
Author, have feverally contributed f> much
to enrich h:s pages, with new dE overies, or
new oblervrtions, that his work wiill ever bear .
a high r,.nk among books of trevtis.
and perilous journeys have often been
cd by men incapable cf fcier.tific cbfervation ;
but in this cafe profound learning and undaunt
ed enterpi.le combine to produce a work, per
haps unique in its kind.
Long
petforni
• It i: a remarkable eo;ncidrnce that, at this very
period, Mr Park ^as in the Weft of Africa. He left
England, May 22, 1 795 i fet out from Pifania, Dee.
1705 ; and was retained at Benowm, from March to
July, I 7^6. Ho returned, Sept. 1796. to Kanialu ;
where he remained till April, 1797 ; and he arrived at
the Gambia tn June. 1797 ; eighteen months having
pafTcd from the commencement of his inland tour of
; difccveiy.
Dr.G.Gtegory,avciy ufefui and amiable living
writer has lately revifed the well koown tranf
lationcf 1'elemachus by I Iawkfwonh,.md pub
bfhed a fplendid edition of that charming and
inftruttivc Epic. It is decorated with beautiful
engravings from defigns by Stothard, and is
accompanied by a well written life of Fenelon
Hawkfworth?s is the mod perie^ tranflation
we have from the French language. The
monthly reviewers averred on the firft appear
ance of Hawkfworth’s verfion that the fpirit,
and genius of the author had never been fo ef
fetfually reprefenta J, and Dr. Gregory allures
us, «»that few tranfiations, or even original
produflions in our language, can compare with
it in brilliancy, elegance, or harmony of rtyle.
The commendation of the original is likewife
high, and from the general imprefiion left on
the mind by cardcf* perufal when a fchool boy1
it is believed, that Dr. G. is not too partial*
when he fays, “ in the whole fcope of modern
literature, there is not a work, which compre
hends fa extenhve a range of ufefui knowledge,
conveyed in fo agreeable and fafeinating a ftyle.
Tht whole mythology, geography, and feience
of the ancients are comprifed in this work—.
I he mod ufefui leffons in poitics and morals
arc inculcated , the fneft feeling* of the heai
are exercifed and improved, The narrative is
more intending and pathetic than thofe of Ho
mer and Virgil j and, in the perufal of it, the
mind, lb far from being contaminated, is en
lightened and refined.
A French ahbe among a very large party,1
had a violent difpute with a Gentl man, whoj
fitting at the bottom of the table, the dillance
between them rendered the acccmplilhment of
any perfonal inftilt impr acticable. '* Sir,” Hid
the Gentleman, “ il I were near you, I lliould
I
give you a box cn the'ear, fb you may conjider the
blow as given” “ And, Sir, replied the abbe. |
were I near you, I fhould draw my fword, and 1
run you through the body, fa you may cotifiJsr\
your rf If as dead.”
ILLUMINATI.
AYR CIRCUIT COURT—September ij.
[concluded r*oit the last gazette. 1
Evidence in Exculpation.
JOHN M’Clu r e. j'ur. in Kirkland Hi’I, fud
he was a member of theRoyal Arch Lodge,
Maybole ; w is admitted a Knight Temp.ar a
long with Qointin Stewart, and took the at!),
which was *• to conceal the fecrcts of th
Knights Templars, trea! a and murder oni ,
excepted ” John Andrew administered ih
oath. There was no political converf itidr i:
the meetings of the Knights Templars W 1
iam Hamilton was under Kdge f an i d of hav
ing a child in adultery, and kft the lodge after
that. Gave an acccunt of the ceremonies ol
adrrfflion ; doer, noc remember of a p ttol being
Hied that night ; and nothing was laid about
putting him to death ; fiw a bufh and a can
ole burning in it ; was delired to It ck and fee
the candle burning and the bufli not c< nfumed ;
f-me piece otlcrip me was read, viz. the third
chapter ot Ex dus ; w..s L*d round the room, i
and after that the obligati* u was taken.
Sptfjlton by the Court. Was any thing done
after he was led round the room ? jiufiu A
human flcull was difeovered, and all Knights j
Templars were to drink out of it. He put it to
h'i lips. He was dubbed in the name of the j
Father, Son, and Holy G'o/J.
John M’C lire, &cho< lmafter, at Craigcrcrcy !
faid he is a Knight Templar ; was n.aJe in
Maybole, alo g with leven more ; was pieleot
at Qu ntin Stewart's admidion. The witnels'
took an oath ; remembrs little of the obliga
tion in it. Murder and treafon were excepted
in ir, the Time as in he Mailer M.dun's oath,,
that is to c nceal the Mailer M.tfon’s fecrets,
murder and tie ifor cx epted, and that he fup
pofed himfelt at liberty to reveal mur 'er and
treafon. He did not think the ceremonies had
a tendency to ridicule religion, as th o ferva- j
tions were fuch as a good Chrflian might make;
a- i he heard nothing hottile to religion or j
government.
Many o.hcr Witneiibs corroborated thefc I
fad,. f
Mr. Ofwaid rofc ;md addrefied the Ju-y on
the pa t of the proiecut on ; a'ler making f me
j idi.icus remat ki on the nature of feJitn n. he,
n- xt adverted to the proceedings and cerern.> !
ntes vvh ch had talon place as proved by the
evidence which had been adduced ; theie he
confidered had a tendency to tidicule rel g on,
and as the jury had the fads before them, they
could therefore well form their conclufions on
their import, and as religion is proreded by the i
hiw, and is a part of the common law, the Uore '
th£ ridiculing of it is an offence, for which a
verdid mu ft be returned again! the pannels, if
the Jury are latisfed that they have been guii
ty ot it.— l htfe and many other obfer vations,
Mr. Oiwaid ftated with great force of ict
foning.
Mr. Clerk, Counfel for the Pannels, rofe in
reply. He faid, he conlidcrcd this cafe as a
very extraordinary one, as near five years h id
elapfed fincc the fads charged were faid to
have been carried on. and the profecution had
originated in a difpute which took place between
two Mafon Lodges in May bole.
Lord Jufticc C*erk fumined up the whole evj
dence with great perfpicnity and candor. — His
Lord (hip obferved, that he could have wifhed
that this profecution had been brought f»oner,
but this could not be imputed to th ■ pi f.cu
tor. (or it did not appear that he had delayed
bringing his ad on after he got the infoima
tion. Tho this fpcci.5 °f crime m ly n t have
occurred in cur Jaw before, tiill tho law may
be applied to remedy ii wlien it does occur.—
1 he Ipecial law cnaded in regard to it docs
not infringe on the law as it (food before. The
oath is not innuent, even as limited by t)^
wit a tiles for the Pannels, and tho there is no
proof that the PanmL had entered into a de
fign of leading the perfons they admitted
into their fociety to le 1 tiwir, practices, yet
the oath may be employed for that pmpofe.
His LcrJfhip laid, he could not believe that
any fuch cerem n;cs w’ere employed in other
Mafon Lo ige^, be> aufe they are lo abominable
and imp ouj ; it rather appeared that this was
a new oatn inrroduce 1 by the Pannels, and
n t in ufe before in admitting Mafons.
VERDICT OF THE JURY.
All in one voice find the fads libelled—Not
Proven.
The Pannels were therefore afloilized and
diuniffed from the bar.
PROPOSALS for publitliing a MO NTHLY MAGA
ZINE, to be entitled,
The Cabinet,
Or, LITERARY REPOSITORY,
TO THE PUBLIC.
rHE acknowledged want of a Mag
azine, or fume funilar periodical publication in
New-England. Las induced the Sublcribcr to h?7a d
his property and reputation on the fame peri eus ocean
on which numbers have already found' rtd. If he
flatters hitnielf with fuceefs, where others have experi
enced failure, let him not be accufed of vanity, until
it be known on what he founds hisexped\a.iou». The
repeated failure of every attempt of this kind is well
known, and the cauie obvious—where many d part
mems are to be fillet! periodically, no one man s adequate
to the talk, howevei fertile his gen us and extenfive
his crudit on—A mifcellancous work, like a Magazine,
to be conducted well muft be conduced by many.
Every preceding E itorht-. confided t®o much in his
own powers ; and if not deficient in abil . y hirrfclf has
yet neglected to iecy^e the liter a y aid of others, fo
indifpenfable in works of this nature. Aware of this,
the Subfcriber has fparrd n > pains or expcnle to en
gage Gentlemen of the moft rclpt.Table literary talents,
to fill the ftveral departmen s, ai d a superintendinq
Editor, of iuduftry and ability. He lias aifo received
affurau es ot ufTnUncc from many liicrarv Gentlemen of
the firfl refpectab lity, of whom the following have po
litely confcmed to the publication of their names:_
Rev. Doctor Morse,Rev. John S. J. Gardner, Rev.
T. M Harris. George Blake, E:q Joseph Dennie,
Eiq and Dwid Lvek tt, r.fo.
In addition to this aid, he has high
etp.illations Iron the Pm Beta Kappa Society*, of
Harvard Univirftty, who on empiate pubhllnng felec
tions ot *hc literary p od notions of its members, in
wh ch cale Lc isaiuhonzed to fay the Cabinet will be
the medium of communication From thi» lource,
which has occafu naliy delight d the conaoifleur, may
be expected a mouth'v cu.crtaiument of the ritbeft fruits
whith tafte and ge v eanfurnlfli.
T
1
rrcm tn : HDove, ana men oiner ai
u fiance aj he ha» realon to anticipate from men of let
ter? lie fl itters himfelf th »r the mifccllaneous reader
will find in the Cab Nerthat variety of ul'eful mllruc
nen and rhalle r*u<err. i.t, which is expedfed from a
periodical publ.cation ‘ rhe kind. American biogra
pin will have a t* nip uous place Whatever is in
tereft r g in our natural or civil H.ftory, c aims, and
\nli meet attention. A luminary of the political Hate
of Europe wi I be give quarterly,- and the political
Hillory of our own Country, in which wil he comprifcd
all important ft ate papers &c. month y The works
of genius and tafte. on every lubjedt, will be fought with
fohetrud- and cheerfully comruunicated to the public.
li'fucli encouragement is afford*.. as
will juftiiv him in commencing the wo. k. the FuftNum
ber w il he f r January, jSoi, and will appear ou the
fir ft of February. JOHN WEST.
coxL/r/oxs.
i.
THE Cabinet will be printed on
good paper, w th the belt type Each Number will
contain from 56 to 64 pages, ornamented with a haod
fomc Copperplate Engraving
I*
It will be publi filed on the fir it of
each month.
III.
The price to Subfcribers will be
Thirty Three Centi and One-TbirJ ei h Number, to be
paid quarter y ; and no Magifine wt I be delivered to
any Subicriber, who is more than two quarters in ar
tears. This condition will he firidily adhered to.
gjT Subfcriptions will be received by
:hc propofedpublisher, No 74 Co nhill, from any per*
Ion refilling w itkin 1 o miles f Boftcn ; nd by
E. A. JLXKS, Portland,
Cvrus Tohnfon.
REfpecthdly informs his friends, and
the public m general that he has taken a Store,
lately occu ied by Mr Wilmm Slant, near Stroudwa
ter Bridge; where he has :> general aflortment of
jfangli/h W JP eft-I mil a Goods,
VVhicb he is determined to fell as low aa can be pur
chafed in the town uf Portland.
Nov. ic (tf)
THE fubferibers, Commiffioners ap
pointed by the Hon. Edward Cutts, Efq
JuJ-re of Hit* Prolate ot VV11.t, &c. for the county
of Yoi k—to receive ind examine all claims of the
fevcral Creditors to the F.ilr r of
JOHN PATTERSON,
l.tte cf Prppei rclborough in faid county, Yeoman,
dictated, represented a, mfolvent ; a M lix moutbi
b-ing allowed unt • 1 lid Ci editors for bringing in
their cU ms a d proving eir debts ;—hereby give
notice, that they Ih.YI st end on laid bnfin f- at the
dwelling - hoin'.- of J.i ph Puttc-rfon, in laid town, on
Wednesday tne t wiuty-tixth d fy of Novembcf
i.tftant, and on the th i : Wcdi.tfday of the five fol
lowing months from three to leven of the dock. i#
the afternoon of laid d.iya.
JAMES OR AY. Jos. C Commit*
BENJAMIN I * AT PERSON, ( fiontn
Pe[>P'Tr?lborsugb% X i>. 3d. igco
THIS GAZETTE,
Is publiihecl every Monday, at E. A.
Jen Kb’ Office, ext door to the Port
Lind Batiks Middled!reet ; where
Subscriptions, Advertifements, and
Communications, are received with
attention.
lhe price is One Doltaa and FiFff*
Cents a year, exdufive of Foliage
As this Gazette has by far the moft
extenfive circulation of any paper
printed in Maine, it is highly advan
tageous for advertifements, which
will fee infer ted reafonably, and in a
conipicuous manner.
PRINTING,
In its various branches, executed in the
neat eft manner, and at the ihorteu
notice.