musks.
VERNAL LOVE.
TrarjlattJ from the (jt.rrr.jr. of \ os*.
"1'liZ Lik. was up, ftrcnc the day,
i 1 he mead in vcrna* l>«vuy gay ;
TJ,e fweiling birds the trees o'trlpread,
The datiy rest’d its modtft head
] rov’d the Ulce r preen margin round,
\vhcre late the ti«ow had chill’d the ground,
And many a new-born vi'Ict leuud.
T)n Fanny’s brraft the ilow’ri were iiid.*
A linile r»y tender cate repaid.
Now here now there, a fhfub was fecn.
That mark'd the grove with early gicco.
The ftrcanlct, n»nrm ring down the glade.
Kcncw'd the crtilet'e deepen'd glade.
The molTy bank invites repofe
We fat, and caught each melting clofs
Ol hcplefs Philomda’s wots.
A fimple wreath, her brows to bind,
Of varied mol's, my Fair entwin’d.
Then hand in hand we cartlefa ftray’d,
Till cv’nirg caft a lengthen’d {hade,
iwcet odours fill’d the bretry air,
As bloom’d the primrofc frelh and fair.
JDeep hlalh’d the Ay at day-light’s ciofe,
The lake with Itreamtr.g purple glows,
Acd bright the full-orb’d mooaarule.
7 he fa’u’ring Hep; the hcaviug brcafl,
Iviy Fanny's GJcot joy coafefs’dr
Her crimfon’d cheek and loofe attire*
The foft alarms of love infpirc
Again we fat, and all reclin’d, *
Inhal’d the bloffi m-feen’ed wind ;
Nor ought I fpt'kc, nor ought fhc Aid ;
My trembling frame, iny tears, betray’d
The empire of the peerlci* Maid,
’But, ah ! what trabfpcrts leia’d my Lu ,
'The firft dear kils I loftly ftcle 1
HYMN TO NATURE.
IrMjlgtt-i frm tit Ocrmjn f oTOtatRC
HOLY Nature. Iicav'nly Fair,
Lead me with thy parent care ;
In thy footfteps let me tread,
As a willing child is ltd.
When with care and grief opprefl,
iSoft f fink me on thy bread ;
On ihy peaceful boiom Lid,
Grief ihall ceafc, nor care invade,
O. congenial Pow'r divine,
AM my votive foul is thine !
Lead me with thy parent care,
Holy Nature, heav’nly Fair !
Miniature Painting.
THE fubfcriber refpe&fully informs
the Ladies and Gentlemen of Portland and its
r.cighborhood, that he practices painting in Miniature,
and has taken a room at Mrs. DaVIS s, Free-Arcct,
and flatters himfelf he fliall be able to give fatisfatfion
to thofe who may honour him with their command^
the line of his profeflion.
N. HANCOCK.
Mr. H. propofes to teach young La
dies and Gentlemen, Drawing, Flowcr^nd Landflcip
Painting in Water Colours, &c. His terms may be
known by applying as above. Ju!y 18.
FOR SALE
At Jenks* B.ook:ftoi:e, next to the Bank,
A general affortment of
Books & Stationary.
Amtna Hjliib are,
A great variety of Children’s Books,
Various fizcd Account Books,
Writing and Printing Paper, by the
ream or quire,
Beft quality Slates, Quills,
The New Practical Navigator.
Belknap's Pfalmsand Hymns, at the
lowed price—per dozen or fin-!e.
Buonaparte’s intercepted Letters.
Blanks of moft kinds.
Alfi—-a variety of
Morocco Pocket W Memoran
dum Books.
A few handfome Toilet Glaffe*.
tray be had at faid Book-ftore.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Charles Pierce, at Portfmuth, and now for
fale at the Bookjlore cfK- A. Jenks, Portland\
(price one dollar, bound and lettered)
JULIA AND THE ILLUMINATED
BARON, a novel founded on recent fadts,
which have t'anfpired in the courfe of the late re
volution of moral principles in France.
Bv a Lad* of Massachusetts.
THE above work has pajfed the cr deal of
rititcal tajle, and in pronounced t>; the firjl literary
judg s to be a compofitton of fterlin^ merit. Its great
objcdtis to expofe the horrid eonfeqnences of a foetal
and moral nature, which have /.owed and fill flow
from the aceurfedfountain of French Philofophical
IlluminatisM- It is ex peeled, that allf!ncere haters
of Galic Mornis% other wife the Pnnica fide# of public
and private lifet will liberal'; patronize a volume of
this nature.
By
B
New hall & Watfon,
No. 3, Loxc-WPAar,
A confignment of
Frejb India Goods.
viz.
FST Bohea, Hyfon & Souchong
TEAS ; * o Boxes a Sorted CHINA,
Bengal SUGAR of the fir ft quality.
ALSO
High 4th pi oof Al’cant BRANDS
Rulfia, Ravens and Imperial DUCK,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
1 RON
NAII.RODS and NAIL PLAT S,
CABLES a id CORDAGE BOLTROPE, Set.
LOAF SUGAR.
SHEATHING P^PLR and NAILS,
SEWING TWINE.
Portland, July 28.
THE COPARTNERSHIP OF
Hujfey, Taber & Co.
BEING this day difiolved by mutual
agreement, thofe who have claims again' faid
firm arc icquefted to exhibit them to either cf thefub
feriber*, at the Store lately occupied by faid Company
in Fiili-ftreet ;—and thofe indebted are deiired to make
immediate payment, etherwife they may depend on
their Notes and Accounts being lodged in the hands of
an attorney for collection
SAMUEL F. IIUSSEY,
JOHN TABER,
ISAIAH HACKER.
Portland, ilTo. id, t8oO
TO BE SOLD,
Or exchanged fcr a Farm near Bqfton,
THE Seat of Mr. Henry Scott,
deceafed, near the Meeting houfe in Lumnburg
43 mile* from Befton, a beauti ul Giuation ; conliftmg
of a large, airy and convenient Houle—a fpacions Gar
den, well enclofed with a board fence, and ftored with
a variety of fruit trees and flowering fhrufcs—a Urge
new Barn, and other out-bu Idings ; 30 acre* of excel
lent Land near the houfe, and 40 acres of good Wood
: Land two miles dillant.
The lownefs of the price, which is
£• 750, is particularised as an inducement to any per
on withing to purchafc fo eligible a Lruation.
ALSo.
A IF ARM in the north part of faid
town, containing Fifty Acres good Land, with a Houfe
new Barn, and good Orchard, and twentv acres Wood
Land, for £ 30a Apply to Capt. JOHN LITTLE in
laid Luntnbvt*, or inquire of £D WAG'D GRAY, Efa.
Court-Street. Bojim.
\June 23, 1 8co.
(8 w—13)
(QUESTIONS
Ti Mcr.hanu, Store ketferi, and Tradifmn in
general,
ift. I)IIAY Gentlemen, Isa pcrftrt Standard of
-A. Ducount, or Intcreft, calculated on every
Dollar (without exception) from i to 1,000, from
one day to ftxly-four days loclufive, at fix percent,
with Notes tor 5, 7 and 8 per cent, of any value,
whether ufed as a Standard, or as a check udoh
the enquirers* own calculations ?
id. Is it of any importance to know the beft me
thods of computing the exchanges* between this
country and the principal maritime trading place in
Rufia, Sweden, Denmark, Noiway, Piufiia, Po
land, Germany, Holland, Flanders, Spain, Portu
gal, Italy, in fcveral of the Windward and Lee
ward \\ed-India Iflands, and many ports in the
Eaft Indies 7
3d. Is a Table of all the Coins and Monies of
Account, in the places aforefaid, of any ule i
4th. Are the Coins and Monies of account in the
aforefaid places, when reduced to Dollars and
Cents, of any fervice i
5th. Is a Tabic of Compound Intcrcft of any
utility ? 7
6th. Is the Table by which the Banks determine
the value of gold, dcfuable ?
7th. Is the amount or Jntereft, accurately calci
luec. for each month from one to twelve month
and on every Dollar (without exception) from i 1
s,ooo, of any value?
8th. Is a Table of all the poft.towns in the Uni
ted States, and rates of poftage therewith, of anv
ufe r 7
9!h. W ill not all thefe together make a book, as
generally uleful and convenient as ever entered a
counting-houfe or ftore?
roth. Will not the whole, when comprized in a
auarto volume of from sco to 115 pages, be worth
i wo Dollars ?
And laftly, is the perfon, who at the expence of
FOUR thousand dollars undertakes to perform
udwards ofjne hundred nndfixijihoufand calculations
oj Interefr, and of giving all the preceding informa
tion to the public in the mofi complete manner, de
fer vmg of your encouragement and support ?
It the anfwer is in the affirmative, you are indi
vidually and rcfpeftfully invited to fubferibr in one
of the Specimen Books, exhibited at the lnfuranec
at JMr* Math'1 Tavern, at Mr. Symmefs
Office, and at E. /1. Jenksy 1 Book-ftore, in Eort
land—Alfo, at the Poll-Office in H'ifcaJ}'<t.
It is proper to Rate, that the work will not be
executed, unlefs fifteen hundred fubfcriberi are ob
tained ; for Four ’Ihouland Dollars is too much to
hazard.
NOTHING IS TO BE PAID IN ADVANCE,
neither w ill it be expelled of fubfcrlbeis to take the
work when piioolhed, if it is not delivered rigor*
oufly conformable to my agreements with the pub
lic, exprefTed in the conditions affixed to the Speci
men Books, each of w hich confilts of fix detached
pages of the work.
I am, with great refpcCt
Gentlemen,
Your humble fervant,
JOHN ROWLETT,
pncrsrv TP~ Ace§m[>tant, Bant of North Amerita.
BUb l hCRIPi .—J HE VOir. IS DEDICATED, BV
permission, to the Preiident and Directors of the
Bank of North America, and has already received
the patronage of JOHN ADAMS, Prefident of the
United States; of Thomas Jefferson, Vi<e
PrefnJent of ths United States, and PrefiJcnt of the
Senate ; of a large uumber of the Senators and
Members of the Houle of RepreRntativts of the
United States ; and of the Prefidents 2nd Dtrtdors
of the different Btnks'unanimously. The Speti
mm Book in* the Bank of North America, is fitting
very faft ovith fuhfcriptions, some FOR 2 COFIES,
SOMF FOR 3 COPIES, AND SOME FOR 5 COPIES, and
I take this opportunity of gratefully acknowled trinr alt
favour*.
Cy*
ishtfearrej acccrJinr to aC2 of Cvgrt c» 31/. fan l2co.
A Common Sewer
VS wanted from the head of Fifh
Street to neat*Chub Lane, in Portland, to be made
with Stone.-If anyperfon would undertake to (ink
one by the job, he is uefired lo give in bis propofal to
Samuel Freeman,
Augvfi 4- Chairman of the Sclcflmr*.
TO BE LET,
Part of a Dwelling-Houfe,
iu this town, convenient for a fmall family.
ALSO—FOR SALE,
A Chiadr ant and Spy-Glass.
Inquire of the Printer. AutruJ! 4.
BEEF InfpecHon.
T
II£ under iigned having been ap
pointed Infpedlor General of tti'EF, for the
Commonwealth of Maflachufetts, agreeably to the
•* AB to regulate tbs inff’Bioo of Perf," parted t lie 4'h
Match lad, and having qualified iu due form publiihes
the following fc&ions of faid aO:, for the information
of his fellow-citizen*
Sec. 4. Bt it furthertnafisd, ’1 hat no Beef which dial!
be killed after the firfl day of September next, fhallbc
packed or repacked in barrels or half battels, for ex
portation, unlcfs it be of fat Cattle, not under three
years old ; that all fuch Beef dial) be cut into pieces, as
nearly (quarc as may be, and which iu fize fhedl not
exceed eight pottnds weight, nor he lefs than font pounds
weight —That all Beef which the Infpeclor or Deputy
Infpttflor thall find, on examination, to have been killed
at a proper age. to be fat, and other wife good and
merchantable, thall be farted and divided by him into
four difFeren forts, for packing or repacking, into bar
rets or half barrels, to bt denominated Mtfs, Cargo No
l , Cargo No- 2, and Refufe. J\ffs B.ef lhall CMiilift of
the choice p eces ot Oxen or Steers well tatted and
weighing fix hundred pounds and upwards ; the fhin
diouldcr clod, and neck (hall be taken from tLc fore
quarters, and the legs and leg rand from the hind quar
ters ; and each barrel and half barrel, containing Beef
of this dcfcription, fhall be branded on one of the
heads with the words Meft Beef. Cargo No 1, fliail
eonfift of choice piece* of Oxen, Steers, Cows and Ht»f
trs, not uuder four hundred pounds weight, and to
average five hundred and tv.cu'.y pounds weight, with
out any necks or thanks. On one l>ead of fuch barrel
or half barrel, containing Beef of this defcription. fliail
| be branded Cargo Nj. i. Cargo AV 2, fliail count! of
fa: cattle of all dcfcription* not before mentioned, of
three year?, old arid upwards (Bulls excepted) with not
more than half s neck, and three thanks, and without
any hueks ; each barrel and'half barrel of which fhall
be branded Cargo No a. All other part? of cattle that
are not above described, which thall be packed or re
packed for exportation (including Culls) fliail be brand
ed on one head Refufe. And every barrel of Beef fliail
be wtll falted with 75 pounds of clean St. L’bcs, Ifie of
May, Litbon or Turk's llland Salt, or eighty pounds of
eoarfc Liverpool Salt, or other Salt of equal quality,
excluftve of a pickle of frcfli water, a* ftrong as fait
will make it ; and to each barrel of B.’ef of the three
art! forts, thall lie added four ounces of Saltpetre ; and
each half barrel of Beef thall be falted with one half
the quantity cf fait abovementioned, and two ounces of
faltpctre.
See. 5. Be it further ena&tJ, That from and after the
firfl day of September neM, every barrel and half bar
rel in which Beef (lull be packed or repacked lor ex
portation, fliail be made of good fcafonablc white oaic
or whi c afli flares and heading, free from any defect,
each barrel fliail contain two hundred pound, we ght of
beef; the barrel to meafure fixteen inches and an half
between the chimes, ard to be twenty eight inches
1 long, to be covered three fourths of »he length with
goad oak ath or walnut hoops, leaving one fourth in
, the centic ; the heads made of a proper th ckncfs, the
hoops to l>c well fet and drove together, the half bar
rels to contain not lels than fifteen gallons, to be hoop
ed in the fame manner as the whole barrels
Sec. 6- Bt it farther emailed, That eve y barrel and
half barrel, in which Beef is packed or repacked fur
exportation, fliail be brauded with the firfl letter of the
chriflian name and i'urname at length of the Jnfpedlor
who has infpedled the fame, with the name cf the town
where it was inlpedted, in legible letters, with the ad
dtion of MASS, (for Mailachuterts.) And every bar
rel and half barrel of Beef of the three firtl forts, flir.ll
aifo be branded with the name of the perfon for whom
he Beef is packed.
Sec. IO. Be it further trialled, That if ar.y p*rfon
nil intermix take out or lliift any Beef, out ol any
afk infpedled or branded as by this act is required, or
put in any other Beef for tale or exportation, contrary !
to the intention of th;sa<£>, the perfon or pcrfnns lo
offending, fliail. for each and every offence, forfeit and
pay the lum of touenty d liars.
See 14 Be it further enaBed, That nothing in this a<5!
fhall prevent the exportation of rounds of Beef, kegs or
tubs, as is now pradlifed .• Providel lew vtr. That the
name of the owner, and the town where he refiJcs, fliail
be branded on the head of each keg or tub, under the
penalty of one dollar for each keg or tub not branded
Sec. 16. And be it further enaBed, That if at*y perfon
or peifons fliail export, orthip for exportation, out of
this Commonwealth, any failed Beef, not infpe&cd and
branded as is by this ac, directed, every fuch exp rtrr
or fliipper, and the martcr of every vcrt'cl having on
board fuch uninfpefled Beef, lhall, on cotivt&ion, r~f
pecfiveiy for eit and pay the fums following : The own
er or exporter Hull forfeit and pay the fum of fix dollars,
and the matter of every vcli'el having the lame on board
the fum of two dullau, for every calk exported or flop
ped for exportation.
Front led a'ways, T1iaJ nothing in this atf! contained
fhall bt conflrucd to atTeet the exportation of any Beef
that fliail be duiy infpcitfcd before the laid firfl day ol
September, agreeable ts the Laws now in fo ce.
The Infpettor alfo gives Notice—
That he will attend the duties of his Otficc, on Spear's
Wharf in Bojlcn, a few rods Haft of fanmu-HaU Mar*
ket, to receive communications from perfon* who wiflt
to be deputized unefcr laid a<£l, and informs them, that
fuhftantial recommendations will be confidered nre
requifite ; and no ptrfon wifi be allowed to infpett hii
own beef. He ca'ls the attention of all dealers tn
packed Beef fur exportation (as it will be for their
own inrereft as welt as convenience) ftricily to conform
totlic law, as to the calks, tint tiicy be well made,
and of the beft materials ; fait and falt-petre to he ufed
of the beft quality, and that the Beef be cut in the
itcaieft manner, and of a proper fuse. As the Infpedloi
conceives the due execution of this Law, at tirft wid
materially fublerve the intcreft and reputation of tbif
C ommonwealth, agriculturally and commercial!**, he i\s
determined nothing tliall be wanting on his part, that
is within the comnals of his abilities to accomp'illi the
end and dclign of the Law ; and he pledges himfelf to
gtvc every aid in his power to all concerned in or
oot of ofiice, for the (am*- purpole.
STEPHEN BRUCE.
t’J' Who has large and convenient
Store, for the tereption of Beef, on reafonablc term,
,nd wlmSMT-fZ-rtS of the eery bed quality
2?. ?9«, yuty *4, 1800.
be purchafed.
District cf Maim,
BY order of the Hon. David Slw.
all, Efq. Judge of the Diftri& Court of
United States for the Diftridt of Maine,
Notice is hereby given, that a. ltbd
is filed in fatd Court by Nathaniel F. Fosoict
Collector of the DiftriA of Portland and
agsinlt the BOAT JACK, of about i 4 ion* burthen
her tav-k'e, apparel and furniture—the fame havin«
beer, feized by faid Collector for a breach of the rtv “
nuc laws of the United States.
Alfo that another libel is filed in faij
Court, by faid Colleftor, againfl forty-five baPs ^
COFFEE—feized by faid Colle&or fo. being ta„decit
violation of the revenue laws of the United Sta’ei,
Alfo that a libel is filed in faid Court
by Jeremiah Hill, Efquire, Collector of the DiflrjA
of Biddeford, agaiuft the SCHOONER SALLY, hur.
then about one hundred and fir tons, her tackle app*.
rel, furniture and appurtenances—the fame having been
feized by faid Collcdtor for a violation of the revenue
laws of the United States.
A hearing will be had on the afore.
faid feveral Jibe's, by the faid Judge, at the Diftri<$
Court next to beholden at P’-ivnalbormigh, for and with,
in the Diftridt of Mane, on the firfl Tuefday of Sep.
tembei next ; at which time and place all perfons in.
tcrefled may appear and £hcw caufe, if any they have,
why any of the above libelled articles fhould cot be
decreed forfeited.
Ifaac Parker, Marjhal
P rtlanJ, id Auguff, 1830. 0f Alaint,
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
Cn MuiiJay the I $lb day of Deceiver r.exl,
A Certain piece ot excellent Wood
LAND, containing on? hundred and twen.
ty acres (moftiy white oak) lying in the towj
i.t Piadrfjrd, about three mites fiom Saco falls....
Said Land Will be fold at the houfe of Jose*#
Beal, living in faid town. The land may be leea
any tune previrus to the day of fale, by apply^
to the faid Josefh Beal. 7
Simeon Beal.
S %rborougby July ?o,
Probate Courts Altered.
\JOTICE is hereby given, Thataf
•*» x ter the nuuith of Augufl next, th- PROBATl
COUR TS for the county oF Cumberland will be holder
at the Regifler’s Office m Portland, on the aa<
foutib Tucldays of each month.
By order of the J dge.
SAMUiX FREEMAN, P^jjhr.
ij, iSoo.
Public Notice is hereby given\
THAT the SubLribers are appoint
ed Cummiluoncr* by the Hon Jonathan Bow
Man, tiq Judg- of Probate. &:c for the county of Lin
coin, to receive and examine the Claims ol the Credit*
to the Eflatc cf
THOMAS DENHAM,
late of Bdrv^trbam, ir» Uid county of Lincoln, Gentle
man, deccalcd, repreienfed infolvent ; and In month
being allowed tor that purcofc, v.*e ft.ail attend to r-cei*
taid claims, at the dwelling houfe of Capt. Thomas Ha»
ward, Inholder in faid Bowdoinham, on the f<cooi
Wcdncfday ol June ncxr, and on the Sr ft WeiinTdaya
the five following mouths, at eleven of the clock in lb
forenoon, on laid days.
NATHANIEL TIIV.TNG, ? Commit
STEPHEN WHITMORE, 5 fionerl.
iTcolwicb, May 28tb, i8co.
~| "'HE Subfcriber hereby ttivesnotice to all coi
cerned, That having beet duly appointed Ad
miniflrator upon the I fate ol l HOMAS MORSE
late of Portland in the county of Cumberland, m*
finer, defeated, has taken upon him that trufij
and given bond as th» law directs ;—He therefon
requefb all perfons who are indebted to laid deceit
ed’s eltatrto make immediate payment: and thoft
who have any demands thereon, to exhibit lot
lame, to
Edmund C. Delano.
Kartbyarmoutbt Ju'y 15, 1800.
Wf ANTED, a quantity of
vv HOPS.
For which CASH and the h'glicft piice will be give#
Inquireof GEORGE NEWELL,
near the head of Union Wharf.
Portland, Jjly 17, l8eo.
FOR SALE,
At AV 13, LONG wharf\
200 cafks ri homafton "dime*
P»< ilan {, A’lguji 4.
Found—A filver S
r\r '
With a C'vpher^ I he owner may have it h applf*
mg at th.sOOIte, and paving for advcrtifmf*
7ii ‘ “*
Wanted to Fiire, immediate1
d D
zve
Inquire of the Printer.
lling-lioufe.
July 31.
FOR MALE,
A feconci hand Chasfe,
11 mm • I. . f>_! - , .
Inquire of the Printer.
July
Q l OLhN rr Strayed from tfie door
* J cf Mr. Jostr.1 * i*,-,Os flore§ I we-ftrect.Parrla#^
on the i 7*h mlt, a black. HORSE, with a white ftr*
tti iiis forehead, had-hippcd, about 11 yepr? old.—*
Wi.otvtr will give ii knmatii ri < f laid Ho»f:totM
lub cribtr at Cuban to that lie iiwv hare bun siM*
hull be well ftwaidcd.
Enoch Hamblen.
*V r,
s -'V
©
b O.
this gazette,
Is pulLJbed every Monivw ct F..A.J1INKot On 1
next iier» to the Pun 1 «. »no Bank, /Atl/ie'S*
Kvjerc Svf>fcr7+\c„y% AJ-vcriijlmmiti and CtMinunicatifit,
received rvith attention
'A The price it ONE HOLLAR L-1 FJl IT CENT*
year, EXcluhvc of Pulh^e. kj P .nDual payments •
rajMcpcd.
WV* Toe ex cnjr-i't an.! r~p:.’h\ i:isrej:'ng cirri:tafior oj I
Gar.ctte. renders it bigkl. advantag «u,}:r ADVER T®
IIENTs, ivlicb nvilt b- injected rtajen ably} and in a *
fpicuous manner,