PUBLISHED BY ELEZER ALLEY J&NKS, PRINTER, OF THE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES, I OR THE DISTRICT OF MAINE
Monday, December 8, 1800.
. [Volume If
M
Miscellany,
:e London paper contains the following intcrefiing
port of the Trial of (wo men charged with lilumi
iftn.
IMPORTANT TRIAL.
AYR CIRCUIT COURT.
ILLUMINATI.
Sept. 17.
is day came on the trial of John Andrew,
maker, in Maybo’e, fometime Teacher of
rivate School there, and Robert Ramfey,
wright there.
he libel charges them as being guilty of the
me of Sedition, and adminiilering unlawful
ths imported an obligation not to difeover
imes which it is the duty of every good citi
D and loyal fubje.fl to divulge and bring to
ht. in fo far as they did, under the fhew and
ence ot a meeting lor mafonary, feme time
the year 1796, at Maybole. along with other
;ir aifociates, moll of them from Ireland,
vAm th^mfeives into an illegal club, or affoci
on. ftilmg itfelf, “ The Grand Aflembly of
ights Templars," which club, under the
ttence of initiating irto the ceremonies of
afonary, did admit various perfons as mem.
s. and did at faid admiilion perform various
emonies. partly with a view to vility and
j. jjdermine the eftabbfhed religion, and partly
freprefent the Government of the country as
^ ipreffive and tyrannical, and did, with this
' ew, obiige thofe who were admitted, to take,
kd did adrriinifler to them an oath, binding
^ icm. among other things «'• to conceal the fe
j. ft.s of the Order of Knights Templars, mur
f irand tre :fon not excepted," or an oath of
p<Ji import and tendency ; and more particu
my charges fhem with adminiflcrirg, orcau
g to he ad.iiiniftered, fuch oath on certain
eafions I'heiled in the year 1796.
Mr. Cletk counfel for the Pannels, made no
ijectiun to the relevancy of the indiftment,
on which the Court pronounced the ulual
tcrloeoror, and the Jury were named and
rorn in.
Fikdence for the Profecuticn.
Qnintin M’Adam, E q. of Waterfide, faid
jj e was matter of a lodge of Free Mafons at
faybolc, of which the Panneis, were members,
iq: feparated themfelves from it.
He fliown the folio win" papers, ore en
cl the Grand Aifembly
^ taled—Regulations
^ fknigh's Templars, held at Maybole, and
to iprinted copy o! Pain’s Age of Realon, hav
ii Bg the name J -hn Andrew printed upon it.
itl Hie above papers being libelled on, were iJcn
® ified by ’his wirnefs.
William Hamilton, Mafon in Maybole, faid
"" « was a memhe- of a lodge at Mavbole, Royal
&rch, No. 264. When he was admi t d a
r.ember, a pi it >1 was fired, and fom1- perfon
ailed oat. put him to d'-nth. He was blindfold*
td at firll when brought into the room, and the
rJcovering being afterwards taken from his eyes,
h was fhewn a (tone jng in ihe corner of the
com, and a both in the jng, «nd a candle
mrning in it. He was told by the Tanncl
Andrew, that it was the representation of God
Almighty in the midft of the burning bulh.
Andrew was matter of the lodge, and was
leading the 3d chapter of Exodus. The wit
nef* was defired to put off his Jhoes, as it nvas ho
fygrmnd he flood on ; the covering was put down
*gdn on the witnefs’s face, and he was led
inder an a^ch, and after palling tinder the arch,
was defired to find the book of the Jaw, it
taken up by fome other perfon in the lodge,
*1° was called High Priejl, and who faid he
would explain it.—The witnefs was defired to
put money on the book to pay for explaining
15 to him, the book he was told was the bible.
The witnefs put money on the hook as defired,
wd John Andrew made obfervations on the
chanter
h.
rdk i.J
1 n li I*r* /I AAC A At
'fiti?e!y remember any of them. Recollects
Jat part of the chapter where the children of
^fuel are faiJ to be in bondage. The paffport
f~r a Royal Arch Mafon, was I am that I ant.
iAfter the above ceremonies the witnefs being
[taken out of the rcom had his coat taken off
,and tied on his Ihoul ers in a bundle, and was
Men brought in • a carpet with a rent in it was
^lled the veil of the temple. He was led through
1,1 *nd round the room. A (word was put in.
pki* hand, and he was ordered to ufe it a
3R*»nfl ail who op pc fed him as a Knight Tern
jir*r. John Andrew read the 4th chapter of
•hiodus ; the witnefs was ddired to throw
blown the fw 'rd, and was tola it was befome a
frrpenr, after which he was defired to take it up
a2a,n. and told it was again a rod. Andrew
^P;'ured ale and porter on the ff >or and called it
!Wood.——IIe was fhewn 13 burning candles,
f^ne in the middle lie was to'd reprefented Je
(thrift, tiie other? the Twelve Apoffles. An
drew blew out one of the candles, which he
C«1 ed Judas, who betrayed his Mailer, one of
them was d m, and was railed l’eter, who de
®ttd his Mafter. Somefbng on a table under
a white cloth being uncovered, was perceived
To he a human Jkvil which the witnefs was de
^,red to take up, and view it, and was told ii
a real Audi of a brother called Simon Ma
R5:*. Porter was poured into the fkull which
^ wilncf, was defied to drink j he did fo and
it was handed round the whole Knights. An"
drew put the point of the fword into it, and then
touched the witnefs’s head with it, faying—I
dub thee in the name of the Father, Son. and
Holy Ghoft.
„ to,’k an oath to “ keep the fecrets of the
Knights Temples murder and treafon not ex
cepted the penalty for revealing was that
hi, body would be runted up like afir deal.
John Andrew was mailer at this admiflion,
and at two others where the witnefs was pre
lent. I he witneU’s impreflion was, that the
ceremonies ufed were a fer fling at religion,
and, though lie cannot lay politively, he tho’t
they had a tv .^Vncy to overturn the Govern
ment. 1 he paffage ns to relieving the 'chil
dren of Ilrael cut cf bondage was not more
commented on than any ether in the chapter
read.
Crofs Quellioned.—He fdd he thought the
defign of the lodge was againll the government,
becaufe cf the words of the oath. Never heard
politics dif our fed of in the lodge. He was
prefent at three meetings. It is two twelve
months ago fince he declared this matter.
Quintin Stewart, Taylor, in Maybole, faid,
he wer t through feme parts of Mafonry with
John Andrew when he had no charter. He
was prepared to be a Royal Arch Mal'on, and
taken to the door, where a roan in the infide
called out * put him death/ and a pifl >1 was
fired ; he was blindlolded and brought into !
the room, and the coveting removed fo that he
might ‘ fee the great fight, the Lord in a flame
of fire in the hufh, and it not confumed this
was read by Andrew. He was commanded
to put off his Ihoes, as the place wa? holy
ground. He faw’ a thorn bufh in a corner of
the room, and a canule, in the heart of it burn
ing—Andrew faid, ‘ go and deliver the chi!
dren of Ifrael from their bondage and the bur
then of their talk mailers. He was taken round
their royd encampment in the middle of the
room, and was then put into what they called a
Dark Vault, in feauh of the book of the law,
and a book was thrown down on the floor, and
afterwards put into his hand ; he was afked to
explain it. The High Priefl came and laid he
could do it upon being paid for it.
rv* i • n i t ...
i nc niga men uau a carpet round him ;
his name was William Moor, an Irilhman ;
witnefs gave money, and the High Piieft ex
pi nned the law. Thirteen candles were burn
in » on a table, they were called our Saviour and
hit twelve Apojlhs.—Wirncfs was takea ouf of
the room to be prepared to be a Knight Tempin'-.
H s coat was tied in a bundle cn his back, and
a put his hand, to travel through the findy ;
deftrts. He palled through the JhJl and feond
v i/s of the Temple He was ordered to call hi-*
il fF *m the ground, To as it might become a
ferpent, Sec. He wts taken round their royal
afl'embly tuo or three times, then to a table
wiie e h me long was laying coveied, he was
ordeied to uncover it, and he found it to be a
human fkull. which he was told was the head
of a brother who once tailed, heird, and fmelt
as we d > now. Andrew poured porter into it,
and gave it to the witnefs to drink, he drank a
little of it as did the reft. Andrew took a
fword, and put the point of it into the porter,
and touched the witnefs’s head with it, and
faid, “ I dub you, I dub you, I dub you.**
The wiinefs was fhcwo thirteen final 1 wands
or rods in a jug. which they called again our
Saviour and h:s twelve /Ipojlles. Andrew the
mailer of the lodge.commented a little on them,
and then took the witnefs’s obligation to keep
his fecrccy. The words of the oaih were “ to
keep the fecrets of a Knight Templar, murder i
and treafon not accepted.” To the belt of the
witnefs’s knowledge thefc were the words.—
Queftioned if by this oath he conceived he was
bound to conceal murder and treafon ? An
fwered he thought fo. He was tylcr to the
lodge fora ihort time, and left them, becaufe he
thought no man who profelTed to be a Chrift
ian ought to be a witnefs to their ceremonies.
Saw a paper entitled, “ Regulations/’
Crcfs Quejlioned—Said he left the lodge from
rebgious icruples. Does not remember the
words, “ Murder or High Treafon” in a Maf.
ter Mafon’s oath. Does not remember any po
litical convention in the lodge, and never
heard any thing in the convention hoftile ei
ther to Church or State. Had the regulations
in his cuftody, and had no injunction to keep
them fecret. If was in the month of Jane laft
he gave information of the oath to the Lieu
tenants of the county.
The declarations of the Pannels libelled on
were produced and read.
The Advocate Depute concluded the proof
on the part of the proLcurion,
Progrcfs cf American Literature and
Science.
THE fecor.d number cf vol. 41I1, of the
Medical Repo/itoi y has juft appeared. In 1797
a quarterly pub'ication was undertaken in the
city of New York, which exhibits the learning
and philofophyof America in a more advanta
geous manner, than has erer been done in any
other periodical work. It is entitled The Med
'cal Rcpofilcry, and Reviews of American Publica
tions on Medicines burger-} and the auxiliary branch
’/ cf Phthfophy. Three volumes and an half
are already completed,and tney contain a valua
\ ble and inllnidive hiftory of the fnbjeds on
1 which they treat. It is matter of furprife to
every reader, tbu this country could afford,
or any degiec of ddigmee, coiled fo many
original and exqelient effays and articles of in
telligence. But to u: det ffird this, it muft be
renumbered that the Medical Repertory holds
the Ration cf a National Work, and that its
pages are filled w:ih communications from al
moft all the States in the Union. By means flp
a regular and extenfive correfpondence, this
general vehicle tolledb and concenters all re
cent difeovtries in Medicine Surgery and the
Phyfical Sciences, projeds and inventions in
the arts and modern deveiopements in Natural
Hiftory, In a word, fnch is the value and ufe
i fulnefs cf thi work, that it ought to be in the
! hands of every pra<ftiti<>ner and Undent of Phy.
! fi< k, and of all men of general knowledge, and
; to hold a place in every public and private Li
brary.
’ ^u;SjC y
-r:
\ p
-v
National Lcgijlature.
HOUSE CF REPRESENTATIVES.
J R ID A Y*? NOV. 2 1.
A mdvre was received from the Senate, in
fi rming tire Honfe that they ! ad formed a
quorum, an'! had c’e-P.ed John T. Howard,
Prcfident t mf're.
A ronr. irter. c* ofifiirg cf Medrs. Grifwold,
S. Smith, and Craik, was appointed to urire
with nrnmv’irrr cf the Senate, to n tify the
Preluient. that the iro h* r.fes !i 1 formed, and
\\”re ready : ^ recr.Ye ary ; ru mication f ont
him.
The commi t:'* hypoin':': or. tb« part of the
Senate, arc Mr- '1 ry and Mr Wells.
Tire joint committee apj ci t d to wait on
t!ie Prefidau, rcpc.r d that tbev Ind perform
ed the duty afi’^o-.-d them, and that the Prefi
dent had . eplie 1 tli.it lie would nicer the two
houfes in tlie feuate chamber tomorrow at
twelve o’clock.
IViifLingtnrii S it'/rJay, AVj. 11
Thi- day. at i : o'clock, Ids excellency th:
Prefu’ent n! th* ILrted States met huh lioafls
in the Senate Chamber at the Capitol, where
he delivered the foho-viag
Speech :
Gcrt':r» 'ncf »Iie ftDPtCi ?i <d
Gentkiflra > i t!.e li >ulc »>f Rcpiefcntativcs,
IMM1.DIA I FLY after the adjourn
ment oi Corgnfs at their lift leffion
in Philadelphia, I gave directions, in
compliance with the laws, lor the re
■ moval ol the public: offices, records and
property, l hefe dire&icns have been
executed, and the public officers have
fmee relided and conducted the ordi
nary bufinefs ol the government in this
place.
I congratulate the people of the ti
nned States on the aQemblage of Con
greis at the permanent feat of their
Government; and I congratulate you,
gentlemen, on the proipeft of a refi
dence not to be changed :—although
there is caufe to apprehend that ac
commodations are not now fo complete
as might he wiihed, vet there is great
reafon to believe that this inconven
ience will ceafe with the prefent feffion.
It would be unbecoming the repre
fentatives ot tliis*nation to alfemble for
the firfl time, in this folemn temple,
without looking up to the Supreme
Ruler of the Univerfe, and imploring
his bleffing.
may uus territory ne tne rcnaence
of virtue and happinefs! In this city
may that piety and virtue ; that wifdom
and magnanimity ; that oonltancv and
fell-government, which adorned the
great chara&er, whole name it bears,
be forever held in veneration ! Here,
and throughout our country, may Am
ple manners, pure morals, and true
religion, flourilh forever.
It is with you, gentlemen,to confider
whether the local, powers, over the
diflrid of Columbia, veiled by the
Conilttution in the Congrefa of the
United States, fhall be immediately
exercifed. If in your opinion, this
important trull ought now to be exe
cuted, y®u cannot fail, while perform
ing it to take into view the future pro
bable fixation of the territory, for the
happinefs of which you are about to
provide.
Ycu will confider it as the Capitol
of a great nation, advancing with un
exampled rapidity, in arts, in com
merce, in wealth, and in population :
and poll effing within itfelf, thofe ener
gies and relourees, which if not thrown
away, or lamentably misdire&ed, fe
eing to it a long courfe of profperty
and felf-government.
In compliance with a law of the iaft
leflion of Congrefs, the officers and
loldiers of the temporary army have
been discharged. It affords real plea
sure to recoiled the honorable tefli
mony they gave of the patriotic motives,
which brought them into the fervice
of their country, by the readinefs and
regularity with which they returned to
the ftation of private Wizens.
It is in every point of view, of fuch
primary importance to carry the laws
into prompt and faithful execution,and
to render that part of the adminiftra
tion of juflicc which the conflitution
and laws devolve on the federal courts,
as convenient to the people, as may
confift with their prefent circumftan
ces ; that I cannot omit once more, Co
recommend to your ierious confidera
tion, the judiciary fyftera of the United
States*. No lubjed is more interfiling
than tais to the public happinefs, and
to none can thole improvements which
may have been fuggelted by experience,
be more beneficially applied.
A treaty of amity and commerce
with the King of Pruffia, has been con
cluded and ratified. The ratifications
have been exchanged, and I have di
rected the treaty to be promulgated by
proclamation.
1 he dimcu!ue3 which fufpended the
execution of the 6th article of our
treaty of Amity,Commerce and Navi
gation, with Great Britain, have not
yet been removed. The negociation
on this fubjedt is Hill depending. As
it mu ft be for the intereft and honor
of both nations, to adjuft this differ
ence with good faith, 1 indulge confi
dently the expedition that the fincere
endeavours of the Government of the
United States, to bring it to an amica
ble termination, will not be difappoint
ed.
1 he Envoys Extraordinary and Min
ifbers Plenipotentiary, from the United
States to France, were received by the
hr ft Conful with the refpedt due to their
charadter ^ and three perfons, with
equal powers, were appointed to treat
with them. Although at the date of
the lalt official intelligence the negoci
"ition had not terminated, yet it is to
be hoped, that our efforts to effect an
accommodation, will at length meet
with a luccefs proportioned to the linn
cerity wTith which they have been
often repeated.
While our heft endeavours for the
prefervation of harmony with all na
tions will continue to be ufed, the ex
perience of the world and our own
experience, admonifh us of the infecur
ity of nulling too confidently to their
fuccefs. We cannot, without commit
ting a dangerous imprudence, abandon
thofe meafures of felf-prote&ion, which
are adapted to our fituation, and to
which, notwithflanding our pacific po
licy, the violence and injuflice of oth
ers, may compel us to rcfort. While
our vafl extent of feacoafl, the coni
mercial and agricultural habits of our
people, the great capital they will con
tinue to trull on the ocean, fuggeffc
the fyflem of defence which will be
moft beneficial to ourfelves, our dif.
ranee from Europe, and our refources
for maratime flrength, will enable us
to employ it with etfed. Seafonable
and fyftematic arrangements, lo far as
our refources will juflify, for a Navy,