BOSTON,JUNE 24.
LITERARY PERFORMANCES.
Monday lad, being the 21ft of June, the Sen
tor Clals at the Univerfity in Cambridge, con
iterated the day of their feparation, by valedic
rnrv performances in the Chapel, before a nil*
iftieruus and rtfpe&ablc audience. A period
which d»lf».red the ties of four years habitual
intimacy of ihefe young gentlemen, and lett
them at large on the world, could net fait of
bewig highly interefting to the fpeAators. An
English Oration, by Mr. LivtKM~>RE,a Poem,
by Mr. John C°dman. jun. and a Latin Ora
T»on, by Mr. Crocker, adapted to the occafion,
•were delivered Mr. Liver mnre's was a plain,
Vcnfible. and handforae compofiiioa ; Mr. Cod
man's Poem was calculated, from its variegated
beauties, to intereft every clati of the auditory
prefent ; as a cempofition it was the chafte,
cotrect and elegant tffufion of a fee ing heart,
and a refined ui'derftanding ; and by his man
| rer of Jdiveiy, we were forcibly made to fed i
the imerefting fenfations which the occafi n j
was calculated to excite. The feelings manifeft
l ed by the audience bear a more honorable tef
r timony to iu merits than anv eulogium in our
power to beftew. Of the Latin we cannot
udge, not reing acqu linted with the language ;
but ptefume it was interefting to the claftic
auditors.
We are happy to underftar.d, that Mr. Lu
f ther Richardson, at prefent a Student at Law
S in this town, is appointed by ihe Government
of Cambridge Univerfity, to prorre unce the
Engl fh Oration, at the Commencement in Au*
j guft next, on his taking his degree of Mafter of
j Arts.
SAL EM, JUNE 22.
FROM GAUD ALOUPE.
Oil Saturday laft, Capt., Stone, arrived at I
I Newbury port from Point-Petre. He left that
■place on the ill of June, and fully confirms
“the account, that Delgers, commanding the
black troops at the fort in B.iflVerre, left that
fort on the night of 2$d May, whether by ftrat
agem or coin pul ficn he cannot tell, and made
a fudden pufti at Point Petre, burning and de.
ftrrying all the plantations in their way. The I
white at my f ‘Mowed, and had fevei ai lkirmifties
wth them before their arrival at the Point,
which was on the 27th or 28th, when they h ii
fa very ievere engagement, wherein the negioes
were beaten and difpeifed, lol-ing about 703
I men, a"d the next day about 400 were taken
prifoners and brought to ihe p int, where they
[were in.mediately (hot. Pelage was t ec on d
;in command in the vhte array, during
the engagement. Capt. S. thirks that the
! bufinefs will foon be finilhed ; and yet from
feme circumftances he mentions, t! e<e is reafon
to apprehend it will not He informs that all
Grand Terre remained quiet, until the day he
failed, when he faw a number of large fires ;
from whte’n it is to be feared the neerots on
that quarter, expelling that Delgr is would be
fuccefsful, have joined in the rebel ion ; and if
fo, it will be a very difficult thing td quell them.
[However, this is only conjc&ure, ^tnd may not
be real zed. The property they deftroyed in
their rout from Biflelerre to the Point muft be
Very great, as they pafs through Cape teere,
where are fome of the largeft and fir.eft planta
Mions in the iflan J. Capt. Stone cannot fay
■whether the plantation negroe* joined the in
■urgents.
PORTSMOUTH, JUNE 26.
Thnrfday being the anniverfary of St. John.
Ie Bafti? was celebrated in this (own, by the
oft Worftiipful the Grand Lodge of New
ampftiire, in ample form.
Thee aft convened at Jefferfon Hall, from
lence the proctffion move i to Sr. J hn's
lurch, where the folemimies of the day were
troduced by prayers, collefts. 5cc. by the
rand Chaplin —Brother Stoddard delivered
moft eiceilcnt Oration, in which be defcanted
t illuminifm, c.early proving that legitimate
dges of freemalonr? ever have remained free
that curfed infatuation. Thit the original
unders of the order of illuminati were not
te and accepted mafons ; that they refemb'ed
afons in n thing but their fecrefy ; but that
me Lw afterwards became mafons, the better
conceal their infernal principles, The ora
>n we think clafijc, and hope its appearance
II convince the world that treemaionry and
umtnifm are totally different.
A Mafonic Gde, written by Mr. Stoddard,
as fung on the occafion.
Lcjitteturc of e^affaebafat*.
HOUSE— JUNE 21.
the farther confideration of the petition of
Me Guy head Indians—w^s referred.
■ ^ TUESDAY JUNE 2 2.
-he further confideration of the petition of
the town cf Deerfield—that ct Jonathan Simp.
^Jon—that of Thomas Agry and * thers—that of
the inhabitants cf Bluehill, Beifaft and Hamp
pHen—were referred.
vThe Houle proceded to eled, by ballot, three
Arents to fup-riatcnd the eredion cf a State
wriion, when His Honor Edward H. Robbins,
ff - H >n. Pcleg Cctiin, ar.d Jonafhau Hunne
Efquires, were chofen.
WfDNfSDAY JUNE 23.
m An order paffed requeuing His Excellency
i|re Governo-, to lay bef re the Legiflature, at
^Cir next feilion, the ftatements which he [hall
j»ave mjft iece. t’y received from the feveral
in this Commonwealth, of their refoe&v*
■ipitai Stocks, ct the debts due to them, of the
(ponies de policed in ibem, their note* in circula*
*”d ca'b on hand.
A jmnt conm'.tte was appointed to wait on
Jii* ExceUency tlie Governor to inform him
that the two brarches of tha lej^fliture have
paffed on the fubltc bufinefs that was befoie
them, and re<ju ft an adjournment.
1 ne Stc etary fo n aftc-r entered and prefent
cd the flowing lift of afts p-ffed at the prefent
teftion, vh ch have received the approbation of
Hii Excellency the Governs—and declared it
His Excel ency’s pie ifure, with the advice
and ccnftnt of the Council, to adjourn the Gen
eral Court to the fecund Wednesday in January
text.
' L«fl cf as*.
An aft in addition to ah aft, entitled, ** Ar. aft
authoring the Courts of Gmcral Sefftons of tLe
Peace t© liberate poor convicts from priion, and to
dilpofe of Hen in Isrvice for payment of colts of
profccution."
An aft to chir ge the rame of the town of Pow
i alboiotigh i i the county of Lincoln.
An aft in a ttiron to an aft entitled “ An aft to
prevent dama.c being done on the meadows lying
m rbr townll ip ot Yarmouth,” fince incorporated
by the nnm ct Dennis,called Nobfcuffet Meadows,
an.i a imaii commonage ofland and beaches thtreto
adjoining.
An aft to explain and amend “ An aft for incor
porating number of the inhabitants of Beeler, in
the county of It rkihirr, into a fociety far religious
purpofes,” palfed77H1 Feb. 1798.
An aft to alur and amend aa aft entitled '* An
aft dividing tlie Commonwealth into lVvenitcn dif
trifts for the choice of Reprcfentatives in thi
Corgrefa.of the, United States, and prtferibing
the mode of eleftion,” pjff d the Jo'h day of
March, i8®2.
An aft authoring the erection of a dam for cer
tain purpoles, and toregwl*te the taking of lhad
and alrvvive* n the town of Middleton.
An act regulating *hr colleftion of taxes In the
town of Bofton, and providing for the appointment
of conlUbles in the (aid town.
An aft altering the times of holding the Supreme
Judicial Court in the c> unties cf Hamnfhiie and
B tk hire, andalfo the C iurt of General Seflionsof
ti e Peace and Court of Common Pitas in the lame
countie-.
An aft to fet off Ward Nicholas Boylfton, cf
Roxbury, wuh h.s eftxte on Jimaita Plain, from
the tirft to the third prtcir.ft3 or pariili in Roxbu
*7
An aft to empower the ftloftmen of the tow n of
Roxbury to iniXdfc the uumotr of Engine men 10
faid town.
An aft in addition to an aft palled in the vear of
our Lord 1830, entit.ed, “ An aft in addition to
an act t.< provide for the initruftion of youth and
for the promotion of t 00J ed .cation.
An act tomcorp #*a»eth. plantation called Flint!*
town, ir the c un.ty of Cumberland, into a town
by the name of Baldwin,
An aft in turiher addition to an aft, entitled
“ au aft to iOco*pjratc fundry pet font hv the name
ot The P: cfi lent and D reftt rs of the UniooBaBi;,'*
puffedtne ajth day ot June, r;92.
An aft to a ter the names ot certain per tons there
in mentioned.
An aft regu'ating the hunting of deer.
An aft to incorporate the plantations called Duck
Trap a id C.i .a-u into a town by the name ot Lin
colntil.
An aft to eftibliflt a fchool in the fourth p’rfli
in the town of Attleborough, by the name ot hr tnk
lin fchool, and for incorp irating the truftccs cf the
faid fchool iuto a body politic.
An aft to exempt a certain ftrexm, iffuing from
Pa’tec’s Pood, in the town of Wt flow, into Sa
Lettckcok rivet, from the operation of all la ws, for
regulating the rifheries in the counties of Lincoln
and Cumberland, and for repeal ng all other laws
heretofore made for that purpofe.
An aft to incorporate fundry prrfons hy the name
of The Prefiderit and Directors and Company of
the Maine Ba< k
nil aci in aj.nuon ro an acr, entitieo, au acr m
addition to an art pi tied the 19th day of June, 1801,
to regulate infpcrtto'i of beef, intended to be ex
ported *rnra this Commonwealth.
An art dividing the Comm mwcalth into diftrirta
ter the choice of CounlciLrs and Senators.
Aa art in fa. thcr addition to an act, enti'led, “An
act for Supporting and pun (hing iougue ,vagabonds,
common beggars, ana other idle, difordcrly tad
lewd per Sons.
An art to divide the town of Window, in the
county of Keunebeck, and to incorporate the wes
tern part thereof into a Separate town by the name
of Waterville.
An act to continue in force an art paflfcd in the
year of our Lord ore thoufand feveri hundred and
ninety fix, ent-tlcd, “ An act cftabiilhi g and regu
lating the fees of the feveral officers and ofhei par
lous thereafter mentioned, and for repealing the
laws heretofore made for that purpof-.
An aCt to eftabl fb a place for erecting a rew gaol
in the cru tty of York, ?nd for altering the place
of holding one of the termi of the Supreme Judi
cial Courts in the Said county.
An art authonfing Daniel Barrett to make a
turnpike road over Meguntckook mountain 111 the
town of Cambdro, in the county of Lincoln.
An art to alter the times of holding the Court of
General Scflions of the Peace and Court of Com
mon Pkas m the county of Kennebeck.
An art to incorporate a number of the inhabitant*
of the town of Rcadfidd, Winthrop, Haliowdland
Auguila in the county of Kennebeck, into a reli
gious Society, by the name ofTlu Firft Bapt.ft So
ciety in Reitlfirld.
An art for authoring the proprietors of mills on
PrefumpScot river to farm and keep booms aciols
the fame river at certain plates.
An art to incorporate Sundry perSons by the name
of The Prcfident, Directors and Company of the
Beverly Bank.
An art to incorporate Sundry perfons by the ram?
of The Prell lent, Directors and Company or the
Lincoln and Kenoebeck Bank.
An art to incorporate a number of the inhabitants
of the town of Gie.it Barrington, in the county
of Berklhirc, into a dftinrt religious Society, by
the name of The Firft Biptift Society in Great
Barrington.
An act in addition to an art, entitled, an art di
recting the mode of transferring real eftates by deed
and for preventing frauds therein.
An art tor eltablilhing a turnpike corporation
within the town of Scarborough.
An art to authorize G orge Ulmer to build a
toll bridge at Lmcolnville, in the county of Han
cock.
An art to eftabllfh the Keonebeck and PcnobScot
Turnpike Corporation.
An art making provifion for the payment of part
of the State Debt.
An art in addition to an art, entitled, An art
to eftabliih the 14th Mafiachu Setts Turrpske Cor
poration.”
itottlatft,
MONDAVy JuXF. 2 8, 1802.
-*■*< 41 • ri-Z-—-3—i— "y*- »- >«
LATEST FROM ST. DOAlIXOO.
Cipuin Clark, who arrirei at N-wy^rk,
; June 19, in 12 days from St. D<mingo, con-!
tradift* ihe news of Tou/faint’s having again ta
ken up a’ms.
Captain Clark informs, that the America !
Conful at St. Domingo, t.*o days I cfore he
failed, wa< ordered otT in 48 hours for the Cape,
to know whether the General in Chief wou'd re.
I ceive him at that place, without allowing him
. time to fettle his bulinefs. The co: fu! having
previoufly learned, that the American Consul
i had been ordered away f*om the Cape, had no
hopes of his being received there. He then
applied to the government for a pafsp' rt for
America ; which was granted, anJ he was uf
ing all polflble difpatch to leave the Ifland.
Captain C. expedh he will come out in the pilot
boat Perferverancc, as be cou d no: get ready in
time f r the Lion
Cap: ain CDric further informs th it the Trea
ty of Peace between the General in Chief and
Touffamt was fettled,which confirms ToultVnt's
retiting to his own eftates, and is, by the Trea
ty, to beconfulted on nil public affairs.
Ail American viffcls off St. Domingo are
. fent in by Fre: cH fliips of war, and their car.
gees fold for bills on the Firft Conful.
Hardy, divifionary general in the north, d'e J
at Cepe Francois the 30th ult. Of the French
generals, he made the fourth vidtim to the yA
low fever.
Letters ftom the Cape, by which we learn
the above, add, that the vi lienee of the dileafe
is unprecedented. It is particularly mortal
among (bangers, few furviving its attack,
Natives and others aflimiUted to ihe climate,
• gencrailyefca pe.
The fleet of Admiral Gantheaume. with
io.ooo troops was momently expeflei from
! France.
We hem that Dr. Watep house has prefented
a mtnv'riai to the Board of Health, on the tub.
j jeft of the Kim Pock Inoculation ; and reqnefted
; titem to take Dm a fteps for fotisfying the public
1 that the difeafe which he introduced into Amer•
; tea. is a fafe and certain remedy againjl t'e Small
! Pox; ar.d we are happy to learn th it they
! hii'-ein conrempl ition a plan that will i> fadibiy
J relieve the public mind fromfurih.r douh s on
this very interefting fu’jecl. (P&1-)
.... . - —
Samuel Thacher, Liq of Warren, ha* been ap
pointed Colonel 'commandant of the 4th Regiment,
firft brigade, 8rh divificu, of the Militia of th:i Com*
meuwealth.
Great preparations are making throughout the Uni
ted State*, for the ce'ebration of the 3th of July next—
the 4*h being on Sunday.
A detachment af it 9 troops of the United Staten,
under Captain Dunham, lately palled through Al
bany for Mich limaririac.
The Union Bank at Portfmouth, is incorporated
for 10 years.
The fcjon. Jamjs Shaffb has refiftoed his felt in
the Senate of the United States. The Lccfl ature
I of Newhampftiire has made choice of William
Plummer, Efq. to fill the vacancy.
~
jin eafy and effectual n ay to de/Iroy ibe xu*rm; in tnhsris.
A rag tied at the end of a pole impregnated wi h
'unfeed oil. rubbed in the worm* nefts, dcllroyt the
worms radiantly. The meiit of ik • ditcovery be
long* ro my friend Capt. Gregory, of L an et bo rough,
aod 1 aiRrm, f. om experience, that it ha* anlwered ray
molt faoguine expert on* \W:Jiern Star.]
tparrtco,
At T-r iverHill, Dr Aaron Kinfman, of this town, to
Mif* Nancv Willi*, of the fortr t place.
DtcC.
At Canaan, 7th iniV Samuel vVerton, Efq. Pofimafirr
at that plnee, aged 46.
Drowacti—-At Stillwater, Penobfcot river, Mr. EJ
ward Holyoke, aged 14.
jy ||?vi
*
PORT OF PORI LAND.
There have beet* no foreign ar.ivaU at this port
linec the laft Gazette.
The tkip John Mot’ey. of this port, wa* at Berbice
47th May ; the Harict cap;. Babioo, wa* to tail from
that p’acc in 3 days.
• Ship Venus, of Pittifon, Kcnnehc'k, for Liverpool,
wa* lpoken June 19, Ut. 44, rz, long. 64.
I lit brig Bee, Rice, of Old York, (ailed from St. Do
mingo, Juuc 8
Ship Caroline, Gordon, of Portend, was fpoke June
• i 3, 3 days from Philadelphia, for Oporto.
^ ^ ewburjpirt, June 18 —Arrived, fchooner Polly
C tpr. Stone, 18 days from Gaudaloupe—Left num
her of lad of America u?, among witch were Brig*
Traveller, M >tiev, Indultry. Lowell, and Fortune,
Bagley, ad of Portlard, who gave in their namo»
to capt Stone, and defired to be reported as “net
permitted to fell or go away, but luppof' d govern
ment would tike their cargoes from them willing
or not and a" one of them obierver, “ we are
laying here with our outward cargoes on board,
looking at each other tilth blent Kr,tf.”
To Let, i
P ART of a convenient DWELLING HOUSE,
fituated in FederalJlreet —The aqueduct hradi
into the Houfe, which renders it very ha rdy for
water.—For terms apply to the fubferiber living in
fatd houfe, or to the pr»nter
SAMUEL ROEINSCN.
P»riianit Jun: i\lh,
Jujl P.i’/'/ld. and fir Salt at
1 THOMAS CLARK'S Bonkftore,
No. 8, Jonra’ Bob, Fpbjhwt,
| '* THE NEW AMERIC \N
Practical Navigator ;
O 7
HFINC! AN
Epitome of Navigation;
CCONTAINING VI he Tab'r •tecrfl'trv to be af 1
'i with the N*uriral Almanack, in de’ernrng the
Latitude ; and the Longitude by Lunar O fcrv.itions ;
ami keeping a comp etc Reckonmj at Sea * • i * tilt rat d
by proper Rule* anJ I timp'fi ; the wh o eexcwohned
in a Journal, kept from Bofton to Madeira, in wh eh
a'l the Rufos of Navigation are introduce t : Alfo the
dcmonllration of the mofl ultful Rule* of rripunoinc
try.* with many ufeful Prob'ems in Menfuraticn, Sur
veying, and Gauging : and a Dictionary of >c* Verm* ;
with the manner of performing the moll common Lvo
lutioo* at Sea.—To which are added fume General In
flrmftio»*and luformatlou to Merchants, Matters of
Vtfisl*. and other* concerned io-Navigitica, relative tu
Maritime Law* and Mercantile Cuftom* —From the
bell Anthonies.—Enriched with a number of New
Tables, with original improvement at.a addition* and
a large va icty of New and important matter — Alfo,
many theufand Erron arc Corroded, which hive ap
peared in ’he beft fyflem* of Nav g.jti:»a ye . uhliliitd
Br NATHANIEL BOWDITCIi, ‘
Ft ilonv oj tue Amir inn Aeu.it my of Arts and Set*trees.
Illuftratrd with Copper Plate*.—Firfl Edition—Froox
the prefs of Edmund .vf. Blunt (Propr.ctor.)
The American Coafl Pilot,
Walfh’s Mercantile Arithmetic,
Seamen’s Journals, See.
§CT Ship Chandlers. and others, may be flip**
plica wiih any of the above Books, with (he ufual tf»f_
count made by the publiflicr. Portland, June i8."
100 Cafks Stone Lime,
i TpOR Sale by William Torrey,
JL on board tifc fthconer lndnfirj lying at DeenWt
Wbarf— warranted of the beft quality. June lX.a
TO BE LK r, and entered upo:i im
X mediately, a convenient Dwelling HOUSE—fit.
»i*trd in Bickftreet lately improved by Air. Edward
Weaver. —Inquire of
JOHN BAGLEY Sc SON,
Who have for Sale.
Perkins' improved Metallic Pumps9
ALSO,
Weld's Lavaters, for wajhing of deaths ;
L.th ol which, are too well known and approved of, to
need the aiJ of aJvertlfing pmegyric.
Pot thud, June *8.
B. Adams,
SCULPTOR & STONE CUTTER,
D Efpedlfolly acquaint* his friends and thr pub'ir;
IV that he h is utt v received a g >-ri . iForttneut ci
CONNECTICUT FREE >TONES, fmtablc for Step*,
Hearths, Jambs, Mante.s, Window Stils and C^ps,
Beds and Flagging.
Alfo, a good aflortment of QUINCY SLATE, fuita
blc fir Vfoaum;nrs.
Likcwifc, a few ITALIAN MARBLE Slabs and
Chimney Piece*.
A few warranted SCREW AUGERSWhich he
offers for fale on reafonable term#, a id at fk >rt notice,
ocar the interfetflion uf Federal aid Court directs*
Pert Uni, Jam 18
Aaron Auftin,
Has for fa/e at kh Store in j*<rre*©trf»t, head of
Ingraham*s Wharf
A Conftant fupply of Live-Geefe,
x Sta-Fowl, RufH* * aoi Lift m FEATHERS.
A r>, Eng 'fh and American manufactured Cottoa
BED TICKING
BKDS made and fi led at the fhortert notice.
MATR\SSE8 of all kind* ready m*4e
Span Hi IMDIGO, and a fe w Cherts Souchong TEA,'
N. B The above itiTortment of Feather* are warrant
ed ofotlie lirrt quality, and will be fold a* cheap a* can
be purchaftd in Burton (3m) Partlaud. June 28
To be Sold at PublicVendue,
At the heufe of Copt. Jonathan Morfe, innholder 'vt
Otis field, on IVednefday the 2,%th of July next, at
two 0*dock, p. m. by order cj Conrt—
I^OUR Lots of Land in Otlsfield,
. aforefaid, in the county of Cumberland, vi®.
Lot* number 29, i8S, and 6, in the 7th range—Lot
No. 8, in 2d range—containing one hundred acre* each,
more or leli—being the Real Eftate of Benjamis Gor
ham, of B*rnfialU, in the county of Baruflable, deceaf
ed.—Condititions of fale made known at the time and
place of fate. Portland, June 15, t8o2.
WILL TAM GORHAM, Adnir. Jlra’.nr
Portland Dancing Academy.
M- DSSFORGES, refpeafully in
forms th« .nlubiunts of this town and its vi
cinicy, that being under the nectlB.y cf returning tv»
the Weft-Indies be cannot (from the date of th> ad
vcrtifemeir) devote more tk*n three mouth* in Port
land ;—he like wile withes to acquaint thoft who fijould
incline to honor him wi hthe inrtruflion of their chil
dren, that tree ve lch liars more will be ad ini ted To ti »
Academy, provided apphcat on be made n the co-rfe
of this week
M. Dssrokoes, anxious to preferve the e.lcem of hi*
employer*, and wiflm.g o fu iil hi' cny-i emeats wit!*
hi- fubferibers.* riqacfls rhem to allow tbtir children x
tffsii* in a week, »;* order to makejwit ihtir t wo qasr
ter%—Days of inttrudt odVill l»e Monday^ Wtducf
day* and v>a urday*, in the aftercoca.
Per itan /, June 1 4.
\ T TE the r.ir.fcnbers, Cj h :.ifi mrr.i aopoint.d
VV. by the Hob. Jonathan Rowuiaf;, Efq. Jiid. e
of Probate for t*hr ctftinty of Line tin, to receive
and exmine the claims of the fever,.1 ere liters t»
the eftate of WILLIAM ADAMj, Ute of Booh
bay, Yeoman, decented, .rrp: dented ufo! vent
hereby give notice, Ilia: fix m *t.ths ftom the fid*
Tuefday ih May tirX!, is a' ovt- 1 to \ in and
pro?e their claims 3 and th t vr • fh 1 jtt-nd t at
fer ire at the hotife WlLLfAM M’COBB, E%«
in Brotbbay, on the hi It T r f ay n M ty next, and
13 the tiiit Tocf I \? i 1 the five fu >»*.•. ~ month ,
from i to 3 ** lock f> m. on e*:h da .
WILLI k M M’COBi), > Cwif,
•JOHN I.FISHMAN. ) finers.
Scabby, Apr^ it, Uct.
* *