[volume V,
Mr. Wolcott's Addrefs
All who are friendly to truth, to candor, and
-to fair and honorable argument, are called up
‘on to examine with care and lefure, this in
Valuable produ£lion. It is entitled, " An Ad
" dref* to the People of the United States, on
** the fubjefl of the Report of a Committee of
4i the Houfe of Reprefenutives, appointed to—
j»* examine and report whether monies drawn
from the Treafury have been faithfully ap
m plied to the ohjefts for whLh they w’ere ap
" priated, and whe her the fame have been re
u gularly accounted for—which report was
prefented on the 29th April, 1802.-By
m Oliver Wolcott, late Secretary of the
"Treafury of the United States.**
The above Addrefs may be had at the Book
Stiffs in Portland•
EXTR ACT.
« 1 have now finifhed my remarks upon the
different fi bjefts mertoned in ihe report of the '
Committee, and from whi h they have conclu
deJ “ that consider able fwns of money have been mif
[ applied) and that much ex/*c»fe has been incurred, j
without arty legal authority l appeal to the
integrity and candor of my countrymen : I
[ entreat them to confider theexp aaith a- I h*vo
i offered, and then to pronounce whethir the
e inference is just ’*
I oi.1VE% U'OLCOTr.
Fri ra the Coumi an CiNTtsii.
[ MR. WOLCOTT’S ADDRESS |
[ ro THE PEOPLE OF THE CXI TED S TATES.
. No. I.
THERE was, if we may believe the hi'.Wan
Heur, 2 cettitia period in ih-* hdiory oi Ireland)
| when 4 the ufjul title of every pe ty i >verei*n
! was the murder ot his ore te^efT r.”— i o ufe a
[phrafe of Lord Mmsh.U, “ l met with thi> in
[the courfe of my reading thi- morning,” and I
[could not h?lp laying d rwn my book to reflect
[upon the fimiLr;ty of fr.ua on he ween Ireland
in the twelfth century, and the Unite 1 States
at the commencement of the nineteenth.
The principal difference bet wet n tnem ap
pears to be that the tide to power, which then
confided in difparching the perfon of the pre
drceffor. is now commu ed for the dedru&ion of
h;s reputation. This is certainly an improve
meat ia the progrefs r*f f »ctety. It is the effed
of that general d fFofioa of light for which our
own time* are f»juftly celebrate I, and may in
a ^reat mcafuic be imputed to the dil- vcry of
E|t4i ineliinaable blefling the typographical at.
« The prtfent age, you know, Sir, is emphat
ically the age cf reafon.—The age when above
ad o'hets the greateft advance* have be *n made
in rendering mer et.Ughlened and jrien Jj to ?*?r
mother ; fo thatws have fome reuf n to hope, if
the future generations fhould continue to afeend
in ’the regions of light, with as lirm and ftea jy
a wing, as has mmked the flight ot their fore
Fatheis, the Jay will foon arrive when the titles
to fupre ne power will not be aifuflination either
shyfical or moral, and when our ruler* may
obtain their places without murdering eilhgr .
the bodies or the fame of their predeccflbrs.
In the mean time, they who are ambitious of'
obtaining the title to offices now in ufe, may
Jerivc gieat inftrudion Irom an afllduou- ftudy
tif the arts by which tn jfe who now admmi ter
the affairs of our national union obtained them.
—The pufdic have lately oeen favored with j
everal impo'tant communications, difcloung
fhe fpecies of poifon, ncceffiry for the murder
if a predeceffbrN reputation, the rrnterials
I’tich were mixed in the compofitirm cf the
ngs ; the apothecary of whom they were
rchafed, and the price at which they were !
id —We know exactly by whom, and for ;
tat purpofc the foils we-e envenom.*d ; and J
the Laertes of the fable, h is bvn caught in j
i own fprings and now lies writhing under <
t venom his own hands prepare J. it may ferve j
a leffon to our ardent politicians to be can j
>us in the ufe of poifoned weapons, inafnuch
they are iabietobe turned agianfl themfelvcs.
Bat our petty fovereigns of the prelent day,
nut f?em fufficiently aware that although
irdei is very go >d as a t tic, it wi 1 not an
or fo well as a warranty—It was a maxim ot
odor Franklin, that wealth is preserved by the
tie means with which it is a quired— But it
not 1», with power ; an ! the “ culled dar
gs of r.ur nition” have yet to learn, that
wever potent the force ot calumny may have
en to bring them in, they will find it of little
ail to keep them at the helm.
The Co nmi tee ot Inveftigation, appointed
the laff feflion of Congrefs, for want of at
Hion to theft conuJerations, hive infliffe f
c of the fev.'reil blows upon the caufe which
tj intended to promote. Their report, fwal
lowed as it was with >ut medication by the of
tnch ftomadi of a wall drilled majority in the
rioufe of Reprele.i tatives, has apparently exci
ted in pubuc, * lit one fintirnent of mingled in
dignation and contemi t throuchmrt the Union.
From tt'e honorable ai d dignified ifaion of
^eprelentati've* of the American people, the
mijo ity oi that committee ha*e degraded
them (elves to a level with the Wood,, the Cheer
ham , and the Duanes, v,ho fell their Pansier ,
by v.holefaJe and retail, at ha f a dollar the pa. \
rag’aph, or at fifty dollar* ;he pamphlet.
The procedure of the Committee (that is of j
them^j rity, lor there were three honed men in
the let en) had already been expofed,by Mr.Stod
ciert sdeleme,which ih~y fo inoennouflyyir/^r^b/
in their repoi t; by the minority of theCommittec.,
on the debaes upon the report ; by the Vi'ginia j
correfpor.deiu in the Recorder, and by limilar !
corrections of miirepiefentation in lcveral Con
nediicut prints ; lo that nothing was wantirg
to comf Ute the vicVry over official calumny
and legiiiative detraflion, but the publication of ;
Mr. Wolcott’s Addrefs to the People of the
United Spates,
This addrefs is written with great coolnefs
and moderation ; it prcfelfes to be and rcilly
is merely dcfcnfive% and with a candor worthy
of a genuine Oifciple of him who faiJ, “ father
forgive them ; for they know not what they
do,” abfolves the committee “ from any inten
tion unjuftly to wound the chara&crs of the
fo mer adrr.ir.idration.”
This pene ous ioibearance on the part of Mr. !
Wolcott *s h'phly commendable. He was one
of the perlons again ! whom the arrows of the i
Co run i^ee weic mod deeply tipt wi h poifon |
aga»r.tf wh m, ttuir report Imuggled into pub
lie n tice he mod unfounded and the m if
atrocious (lander. But the people ought not
to be equally mercifol—The reputation of a |
rnomi" citi/.en, at d a faithful public deward, 1
s the propeity of the nation i and loattacn it i
fcyb. fe an J'nfidious practices under a colour
cl the national authority, is to rob the nation j
itfc f of it, mod precious jcwrl*. It is the duty i
of the people to vindicate their own righ;*, and
to frown with poiated r.fentment upon this
pr» ft tuti n of p ;wer to the mahgnaut pupufes
of fsdfion.
If there be yet in this Union a man ot a fsir j
and urprejudiceJ mind, entertaining doubt-. a->
to the rcfpeffivemerits of thep'd «*'»J pitient
adminiftra ior s of our n*ti nal government, let
i him re id the report rf the Committee and this 1
; add cl" of M'. Wolcott—Then lei him reftefc,
I ard pronoun e.
Mr. Wolcott, after imply (tatmg the Ucb,
that the m j » itv of the Comm.ree drew up
thtir rcpoit, without confuting the tninoruy ;—
and that they rcjefled every attempt on the
part of the minority to ameuJ it, proceed* to
confider it' inculpations under nine diftirft ar
t'c'cs, which heanfwers fuccetGvtly, in a man. j
! ner which nu t give the higheft gratification to
j the friends rf the former admin ftration. — I
propofe to give a general view ct thefe a> tides
ot impeachment, and of die defence oppofed
againtt th m, hoping that every perfon who
It els .,n meieft in trie h nor of his country, will
recur to the pamphlet lor more ample fa i*fac
uon. LEL1U3.
. -■■?;* —■ .. *r-r .'rr.-a
If a mir write two book* againft teligion
and one agiinft all kinds of government he lhall
have a f<igate of the United States, and the
cffXional: efleet a of the President ; if he will
compile all the current lies of the country to
fevve a po itical purpofc, he (hall have one hun
dred and Hxty fix dollars out of the treafury of
Month eilo, md two hundred from the treasury of
tlie United States; if he wfl Ileal private let
ters and talk of (h *oting the father of his coun
try, he fhall fed the UniteJ States lour thouftnd
reams of paper at four dollars thi ream, which
an? one elf- would lell lor three ; and if ire will
a (fault with intent to murder the editor of a
federal newfpapcr, and head a riot to awe
coogrefs into bid measures, or to irfult its
members for ading uprightly, why then he may
murder his wife in the diftri.ft of Columbia, be
reprieved from eiccuiion, and in decent time
pardoned The man who a'iaulted Mr. henno
in his office wi h the evident delign of deftroy
ing him, the m in wTho mar dialled a mob in
Waftiington to terminate the confcientiou^ op.
politic*v of the Fedcra ills to Mf. Jefterfon, the
min who murdered his wife while in a ftate of
pregnacy. even this man, Jimes M’Kirk, has
been reprieved from his punilhment, »nd is
now a fair candid ite for the lenity of the exe
cutive. There is no doubt that he will be par
doned. and the often'ible defence of the mea
fure will be that he did not intend to kill, and
Mr. Augulfus 3. Woodward, will be (aid to
talk good fenfe when he lays that “ perhaps if
lhe (rhe w ife) had been of a more rebufi conflitu
tum the cruelty ufed towards her would not
have injured her ; perhaps it (he had net been
in a Jlate of pregnancy the#dame degree of C’Uel
ty would not have affefled her ; perhaps if (he
had not been pregnant with twins the vvomd ltd.
have borne it with fafety but there is a rea
fon of juftice which is one thing, and a region
of State which is another thing, and a re.if n
i f contract w hich is a third thing, about whi h
Paine and Duane and M’Kirk may know as
much ai Calender. [Gaz» U, S J
The Jacobins tells 11s that Mr. Jefferfon is
abufed. Inquire correflly, fcr.d it will be foil'd
that Mr. Jefferlbn has abufed hirnfe f. , Hecol.
1 lc<ff that he paid for the publication ol (Under*
again ft Waibingtott, Adams, See. yes, iHrk
naked fallhoods ; that he patronized, while it
f rv^d his turn, the man who pionounced
Washington to be a ‘‘ poltroon,” and Adams
a fcoundrel that he now patronizes a man
who has Scaped fr»m the arm of Briiilti juftice,
and who has a knowledge of ftoien letters, and
ivho—(the pen almoft refufes to trace the
words which muft chill the feeling heart with
horror)—and who declared, that “ had not
Wafhington left town at the time he did,
(which was rather unexpected to D ) he'would
have Jhot him l” Oil monftrous l He was de
termined, it appears, to render himfelf notori
ous hy fome means or other. But had the
aflaffia ventured into the prelence of that great
and good man* he would have been f> over
awed that hi* trembling fingers could never
have drawn the trigger ; his, frame had been
pa Tied ; and his daik foul had recoied into
itfelf, as it did before that augull body, ihe
Senate, when he wa> brought up for a line!.—
Say now, does not Mr. Jefferfon, abure himfelf,
by keeping fuch charuiters about him ? How
degrading. 1 [Gaz U.
It is faiJ that Mr. Jefferfon more deeply than
ever deplores ihe lacerations of the Prefsf and
the M oceans of calumny nvdb nu'icb it has been j
thought expedient to cvernvhelm his name.”—He
muft b!anr>« himfelf alone for thetc things.
N t -vithftandiog the oceans of vile calumny,
with which be thought it expedient, through
the irdlruirenul ty of his organ, Callender, and
h\s hag pipe, Duane, to overwhelm the names
of Walhington, Hamilton, Adams and all
tl ofe who adminiftcred the government, the
federal republican*, at his acceiTion to the Pre
fidelity, proffered a flag of t uce and w’ould
willingly have buried the paft in oblivion upon j
the terms which he propoled in his inaugural j
fpecch—Bit he in Unrly commenced afyftem
of tyrautiic.il proscription unheard of in a free
country . He inlultiugly invite J to our (bores
the moft odi' u> man alive, and called to on*
of the high.ft ctfi.es in g >vcrnment a foreigner
who had »n(\*g.ifcd an infum&inn ag«i .U the
law*. Aftct ail this, bis fitneis for the confi
de ice of ihe people ought to be known, and
unief* he voluntarily retires (a it i* thought
he wi.l) before another election, it Ihall be inunvn.
We have loag been in poffcTion of an anecdote
which would fettle thi* bulioefs. We find by
paragraphs in fever il papers, that others are
alfo in poffitfion of it. Let the fiends of Mr.
Jcfferf»n look r« it. and give him prudemcoun
cil, if they w Ih his character (bonld contnue
to be treated with a delicacy which it d' es not
deferve. ibid.
A CHANGING WORLD.
IT is n ’t long, lays the rilbtnv Centinel
fi ce Mr Burr was confidereJ by the Democrats
in New.York as their leader,and fince they gave
hi u unequal number of votes wih Mr Jeffer
fon tor the Preiidcncy of the United States.
N 'w a large p rty of them abufe h»m as one of
the m /It unprincipled, and the molt dang.rous
men.
It is not lorg fince Mr Burr thought highly
of Mr. Cheetham, and Mr. Cheetham ot Mr.
Burr ; tince the one wu inftrum n al in eltab
hilling ’he r thcr as co.editor with the renowned
Mr. I WjiiHV'n, of the Am rienn Citizen —Now,
alas ! mey are at fwords p< i:.*s, and Mr. Cheet.
ham dare not take refuge in the houfe of Mr
Burr, were h? even chacci by a mad Jog.
A li'tlf h:ie ago, Mr. Wood was earthed by
the Ciintomans, and they wifiied much to fee his
excellent hiltory of Prefident A J ms* adminif*
1 tiaiion Now, ftrangea it may feem thev call
! h'm ‘-the moiffne^k ig fcouadrel in God’s
creation.”
Not many months have elapfed fince Mr.
Duane fupp’iieJ Mr. Wood wi h materials for
his billot j ; aJdreifed an affeifiionate letter to
Mr. Wood, begging him to ftir tip Mr. Chat
ham and Doctor Mi chtll in the good caufe ;
dropped a handfomc compliment on Mr. Smilie,
an Irilhm in i i Penlylvania. Now. how fiiaU l
fay it, Mr. Duane wilhes Mr. Wood anJ his
hillory at the-.
Once upon a time, Mr. Jefferfon and Mr.
Callender would feem to have been upon terms
ot ha-mmy and focial iotercourfe — when Mr.
Jefferfou believed Mr. Callender to be ihe befi
writer in the wmld, except himlelf—when he
gave him one hundred dollar^ to encourage him
in his lucubrations—and when he opened his
eyes wide, anil g'ggled over the “ Prolpeit
before us.*’ Behold ihe wonderful reverfe l
Mr Jefferfon Harts at the name of Callender ;
and thinks if the Chiftiat fyftem be true, that
he is an imp fent by fatan to torment him.
There was a time when Mcffrs. De Witt j
Ciinton and AmHrofr Spcncer#ru!ed the St«te
of New York i put d«*wn an I put tip ; drove
like Jv.hu, and cubed it ihe a>/7/ of the people—
The people have la'eiy dilcovered that they
have been grievoufiy deceived, *nd determ ne
that they will be no longer ufed and riddew like
affes.
Hardly a year has revolved fince Mr. Jcff.r
2 ....*■* ... .
fon wdi Hippo fed by many to be a fcmnd Sol-,
omon, who would make gold as the Homs of
the field—would multiply anti replenifh h j>ub.
iicau 1m upon tie earth, and eveiy man move
irt a “ circle of , felicities ” Alack a daily !
what tl.*.philnfophcr touches turns not to gold,
I but to dirt. His friends wonder where are the
j cfTefls of a mind fo much “bent on phi l« fyhic
purfuits.” What ftiali wc. or can we fay to ill
this, but that it is a changjng world.
Moderate men are of opinion that it is bell
“ 10 bl,ry party animofity and d.vifion, and
look for good men without regard to politics.’*
Mr. Jtfferfon was in this mood when he made
his inaugural fpeech, in which he fpeaks <;f
“ yeftdring harmnn? rn foc;a! intercomfe.*'—.
it ^ , Uanc* “ ,be »fgan of the people,”
calls all that, and perhaps tne^WIT«TeTnam^trrSl
fpeech may be called, mere “Jiang* of the day*
[G<ix. C\ S.
extraordinary pamphlet.
A FAMFHLfT is juft publifhed by Mr, Wood;
entitled “ a full exp >fi;ion of the Cfintoniafi
JaSion, ard tht So«icy of the Columbian IHttwin
atig Uc. which, whether we confidcr the mat
ter or the manner, muft engage the a te tion
of the public. It is hoped that fome perfont
w ill give a particular review of this popular and
mterefting work, wife extracts, for ihe fake of
thofe who m iy not have an opportunely of pe.
tbc WOfk itfelf. Thofe who have the
opportunity, may be a/fured that they will fi -dt
inf* rmation and entertainment which no ac
count or comment can well fupplv.
Mr. Wood, while he expofes the arts andl
views ot a defeription of men among 11s, hat
lhown a talent of wit and iatire which few merit
poutfs. Nothing can exceed the ridiculous
light in which he has exhibited feveral tf the
Clintonian ta&ion. The hiftory of Cheetham
is drawn in a maflcr’y manner. The dory ot
De Witt Chnton and the philofcphic birber,
is inimitably told. No o e can reaJ the ac
count of the queftinns dtfeu/f d iri the infidel
club, and particu arly the anecdote of the young
attorney w.o, at one the mailings, knocked
down a bald headed Caledonian in a tempting
to kdl a fpider which had dropped on his head,
wo bout (h iking his fide', with laughter. Our
nfirth h w*ever 1* checked by the confidcration
ot the awful ui kedb efs in hc inftituuon of the
infi ei fociety. Much ha* been f id about the
Illuminati, and many have denie 1 their cxif
tence ; but it no longef admits ol the lea l * oubfc
I ih«t we have a fncie.y < f them m the very mid ft
ot ui,—AT* York Gaz
LITER ARY.
i he NTlife’s office was |>y heaved ilefign'd,
lo p cafe, improve, i*ftruA reform marfsind ;
lo maV-'* dejecled Virtue nobly r fe.
Above trie tow rmg pitch of tp’ct.th! Vic-;
Fo make pi.lt \ ice, aliaihVi, lirf hend hang down.
And, itatnoliog, crouch at Virtue’s awful frown.
An elegant transition of the Sati-es cf ju
vena!, into En«al ft verfe, by the ma.terly ped
of William Gifford, efq. has iccentiy been pub.
• ithcJ m London, a copy of which h is juft been
received, ami will, we undirftand, be immx.
di.itely pur to prefs by Mr. Morgan, of ibis
city. I he pub lifter we hear, is determined to
withhold n.ither cxpence nor exertion in the
execution cf the American edition, in order
that ths piince of fatirifls may make his appear
ance among us in a drels fuitablc to his digni.
ty & merit. In the prefent inflance* not onlv the
uuty of an able* tranflator, in tranflating the
real lentiments and native beauties of his author
has been faiihfully performed, but Mr. Gifford
has g’eatty cmbrliifted and enriched h s work
with notes, iliuUrati ns, and a frequ nt recur
rence to fb-i king an i beautiful pafft'es of an.
cient and mniern poetiy, hill ry, and criti fm,
which cannot fa l of rendering it intrusive
and amdling to every clafllc fcholar, as well us
highly intwefting and pleafmg to general te i*
tiers.
A profpe&us of the work is ftcrtly to appear,
and will, we flatter ourfelves, meet with a lib
eral patronage from every friend to daft; lite
rature.—Phllad. pap
The Rev. Mr. Todd has undertaken,!? feenee
to write a life of Spenfer the P et. Dr. John
f-ndid not include the life of Spenfer in his
Biographical work, tor want of materials ;
and fo iiitle is really known of that celebrated
poet, that Mr. Todd will perform an accepta
ble ftrvice to Eng1 ft literature ifhelhoulJ be
able to explore any genu oe fources of intell**
gence.
Pxh acl of a Liter from a gen'd '/nan in Imogen coun
ty, Kentucky, to hit friend at ihg Sweet Sbrinct
dated fuy, 1802.
“ A half ifeull bone, very remarkable for
fi/e, has bern tound m (inking of c.ipt- Berry's
fair wells deeper, fince you Lit this place. It
weighs 246 lb. the eye hole fo large that a
common hied man can creep through it ; the
bone iou d and entire round thee eye hole, not
decayed as it is in oth“r parts : the noflril is* ve
ry large, arid the cavity f<*r the brains not larger
than a pint howl, Jo that the monflrous head
could n.ver have containci more the one
of brains. Some of the double tec1;! being fonudj
weighed fix pounds caca.^Siujtton ltd. df:f\