_ POETRY. _
/•'mm th* \ttr-XHghmd Htvitw,
*• THE GOOD OLD TIMES."—No. ft.
I wish the fashion* were the Mine
An thirty year* ego;
I can't imagine whntcnn mnkn
The tailore change them ao t
When I was in my youth 1 made
A coat of homespun do,
And thought it very fine to hnvo
My hair tied in a tpteue.
And In thoae dnyaour breeches were
All buckled at tho knee,
And tilvtr buckle* would ensure
The heat of company;
Our beaveru were of comely shape,
And kept off sun and rain—
Oh how I wish those brand hrimtn’d lint*
Would come in vogue again I
I’m troubled with a half a yard
Of cloth about my feet;
My coat is made so very small,
The lap* will hnrdly meet;
Tight knees are nil the fashion now,
And shoes must have square tots ,*—
Where Fashion will arrive nt Inst,
The tailor only knows.
The dandies of tho present day
Have watch-chain* all of gold,
You’d think their monstrou* pocket-book
Was fillet! With wealth untold I
My lather wore a silver watch,
And eke a good steel chain,
And well I recollect his straight
Old pewter-headed cane.
H* owned a large and thrifty farm
Of wood and meadow land,
And always hod a plenty of
The dollar coins on hand :—
I guess some dashy friends of mine
Would find it rather hurd
To pay for coats they’re wearing now,
At " two pounds ten per yard.”
But as for me, I wish I Itntl
My silver dollars back,
I’d recollect my (kilter’s ways,
And tread the same old trnok;
I’d never do as I have done,
Risk hundreds on a bet,
Nor be obliged eo oft to cry,
“ Clean pockets here to let.” Oatn.
VAKUIIH Anu miiLIAMi
Or Religion the best thing for tAts world.
The following Rppears as a communica
tion in a late number of the New-York
Gazette.
Of late, my friend Lang, a good deal
has been said about Miss Wright and her
Temple of Reason. I think the plain,
simple, but true history of myself and Wil«
liam affords as good a practical common)
on the effects of infidel principles ns anj
thing I have met with. If you think i1
worth publishing it is at your service.—
In a short time it will bo forty winter)
since I first landed in New-York; I wai
then in my twontietli year, without a fact
that I knew, or a friend to counsel 01
direct. On the first Sabbath morning
after wo landed, threo young men of our
passengers called and inquired where I
was going to-day. I said, to church ; they
answered, we have been near ten weeks
confined to the ship, lot us now walk out
and see the country, our health requires
exercise, and we can go to church another
day. I said, as long as I can remnmber I
had gone to church with my fatlior every
Sabbath of my life, and wfien we parted
his last words were " Remember the Sab
bath day.” They went into the country ;
I went to church ; they spent a fow shil
lings of their wages ; I put two one penny
corporation bills in the plate. Some of them
were good mechanics, and got from eight
to ten dollars per week; my brunch was
poor, and it was only by close implication
I earned live dollars per week. They con
tinued going in the country, found looso
company, spent most of their week’s wa
ges, came home half drunk, sometimes
caught by a thunder storm, spoiled their
fine clothes and hats, rose late on Monday
morning, bones and head aching, and could
work but little all that day. I went to
church, saved my wages, rose early on
Monday morning, my bones rested, my
head sound, and started on the labors of
the week with a light heart and quiet con
science. At the end of tho year they
could show fine clothes, and powdered
heads on Sunday ; but, I could show one
hundred dollars piled in the corner of my
chest. They have all been gone long ago,
having lived fast, they died early; while
I, as one consequence of regular living,
nave not been confined by sickuess for one
j m1 ril‘h,t P*r',od- Now, Mr. Deist,
find Mrs. Deist, you who purpose to reform
i. ,.??rld *?y destroying the Biblo and a
bolishing the Sabbath, I would ask you,
who lived the most comfortable life, they
or IT who were the most useful members in
wc'*,y |, They died and left their wives
and children boggnrs. If I die to-night
my family have the tools and hands to inako
themselves independent of the world.*
About three months after I landed, there
camo from England into the shop where I
wrought, a man by the name of William :
ho had a fine little woman for a wifo, and
one or two young childron. He was an
excellent mechanic, end tho first, 1 believe,
who manufactured conch springs in New
York | he was, by religious profession, a
Baptist, and went to church in Gold-street.
Dr. Foster, I believe, was then tho pastor.
He continued a consistent professor .attend
ing church regularly with his wifo and
children. But, William was a warm pnli
tician ; a democrat as red hot as the .ron
he hammered. He was soon found out by
tho radicals of that day. About this lime
there came to the city a man by the nanio
of Palmer, who was either born blind or
hud lost hi* sight by disease. This blind
leader of tha blind used to lecture on deism
in what was called the Assembly Room,
in WHIiam-streot. William was lad by
some of his new associates into this dun
geon of despair and drunk daap In their
dark and cheerless doctrine. In a short
time lie came out a flaming deist, and in
stead of going with his wife and children to
church, ho Ind them to Long-Island, or the
fields In Jersey, or ho went, by himself, to
a low tavern and harangued on Tom
Paine's Ago of Ronson, to any set of block*
! heads, who would hoar him. His children
| as they grew tip, being left to wander us
they pleased, soon associated with bad
company, and turned nut worse than good
, tor nothing. Ho had commenced business
for himxoif, and for some time was in a
, veiy thriving way. But now, every thing
( was forgot in hi* seal for piopngating his
'new principles. You might And him in
every street and corner, pouring out his
new light; and so vulgar und brutish whs
tho language in which ho blusphemed eve
ry thing which society in goner;tl holds sa
cred, nml moderate men of any principlo
got disgusted—shunned Ills company and
shop, and his worldly circumstances began
to full into decay. As old-sliopmatcs, Ito
and I over liavo boon, and now tiro, on tho
most friendly terms when wo moot; und
from tho beginning have I expostulated
and warned him of tho min ho wus bring
ing on himself und familv in tiiis world,
laying the next aside, 'fhougli he could
not deny tho truth of what I said, yet ho
seemed like ono who hud gone so fur that
ho was ashamed to recode. Ono morning
about ten o'clock, a few Mteks ago, he
called on mo and asked for something to
buy his broakfast, as he had not tasted uny
thing that day. I looked on him with sor
row, Rlmost crying. Says I, William, has
it really como to this with you T Ho said
j ho had not n cent—a friend, or child, to
help hint in the world. I asked for his
sons and daughers, by name—they had all
gone to ruin, or wero dead. Tho few old
friends of the William-street Illuminati,
now that he wus poor, know him tint. I
gavo him a small sum, and told him to call
on mein his extremity. Says 1, William,
there tiro my sons and daughters ; they
aro an honor to their parents, being all use
ful members of society. Your children und
mine were brought up neighbors to one an
other—what should mako them to differ 1
Ho was silent. Says I, I told you thirty,
four years ago, your mad principles would
beggar youself, and ruin your family.—
While you carried your cnildron to the
fields, or left thorn to wander in tho rent
of destruction, 2 carried mine to church
where they were not exposed to bad com
pany; and now they walk in tho ways o
wisdom, which are pleasantness and peace
■ I added, you must now bo convinced tha
i religion is the best thing for this world
[ and in tho next, they who profess it wil
bo as well off as you. But if tho Bible ii
true, yon may say with the miser, I wai
stm vod in lltix, and damned in that which
is to come. He confessed I had the lies)
, of the argument, and said he might have
been n rich man if ho had stuck to the
principles ho Had brought with him from
England. He said ho thought of going in
to the alms-house—it was a good last-re
treat; and for this, says I, William you
hnve to thank Christianity ; where tho Bi
bio is not known, they have noither alms
house nor hospital. I have only to add,
that this story is no Action, nor combina
tion of characters that may have existed ;
but it is litornlly true. My friend Will
iam now lives, (you know him,) lie is a
man of truth, and will vouch for what I
hnve said, were he asked. If any one
doubts, you may give them my name. I
will point them to some of the men, still
alive, of whom Ispenk. Yours, Cardus.
"Ono of the young men of whom I speak, urn* n
bilker; in «lit of intemperance, while working dough
in die trough, nlonc, lie lost hi* hnlnnce, tumhed in
with his head buried in dough, and in thia situation
was found dead. This fact is known to scores ot his
countrymen now in this city.
Last Time Calling!
ALL persons having unsettled accounts
with the subscriber are requested to call
and adjust the same before the expiration of
the present month, as he is calculating to close
his business by that time.
N. B. All who neglect to call will have
their accounts left—(they can easily guess
where.) WM. LA FOGG.
Dec. 15 *7
Collector's Notice.
"VTOTICE is hereby given to the residents
X^ and non-residents, owners of real estate
in the town of Cornwall, who have unsettled
taxes made on the assessment lists of 18*6
and 18*7, that the subscriber will sell at the
old public sign post in said Cornwall, on the
sixteenth day of February, 1880, at * o’clock
in the afternoon, so much of the real estate
of William Lewis, Asa C. Lee, Chauncey B.
Merwin, Bexalcl Merwin. Alson Marvin.
Isaac A. Norton, Uriah Turner, Phinehns
Cook, Luman Harrison, Lyman Page, Elisa
beth Herrick's Heirs, Sarah Lnthmp’s Heirs,
George W. Perkins, B. P. fc Lewis Mills, and
Reuben Philips, as will pay a State tax of one
cent on the dollar, and Town tax of five rents
on the dollar, made on the Assessment List of
18*6—and State tnx of one cent on the dol
lar, and a Tow n tax of six cents on the dollar
made on the Assessment List of 10*7, and
the cost of sale.
ANSON ROGERS, Collector.
Cornwall, !)«,.», 18t9„
__ ~~ STRAYED
F tenXL!*? »°"ie time in Sep
~d cStr4Vu?o,Xn„lEARlV,N1?8K"V
ed and ? * "*ifer Hne back
Uon reapucling <*«!» »U1 t.
Wool, Wool.
JWDW1N &. OALPIN
•&*5" ® !?&sys&
-£g=gi._
„ viouMS '
w*ocery«fc Flour Store.
COWLES & SON,
Jrl n*, "r,v’,d uy w"y »f n>« ca.
•i»r;f" ”1''' • Im«* *«i ••«•»■
Groceries,
Flour, Alo, Suit, Oil, WINES,
The nll,ffs', Me(,icine«» &o. &c.
wIIM.T! nrh m"ni‘ *r,,c,w' mt mentioned
win ne sold »ri nr accommodating terms
«» at nny Store In this fltnte.
_ALSO. A SMALL LOT OP
dry goods,
IT men, to close II ennenrn, will be sold for
1 „ . t*M» THAN COST.
rnnHingtan, Main Street, 1
00roff.*ow#A of the ChurehA
_ ^Pccw/Afr 0. 1889. S_ 8fl
Cow-Hide Boots and Shoos.
«'« constantly manufactur.
'Toricmen?fth* ’ Hnd ^ ""l*rlnr
T iii. Lit m yWliW it WOODRUFF.
I.ltchfleld, Oct. U, IUSO ,n
NOTICE:
Tw.H' lnh.Mt.nl. „f thn t„»„ „r
Washington are hereby notified that I
state »larp"ni? for ,hM co,|cction of a town and
$*'?,'** on «»« »«««! and that I will attend
Inlt in POT"* °n ,h,“Sl,t d"y «f December
N?wton h«nd lnnPhn *2 ,h° ,,0U"° of N,,lhn''
JudsJn ic WhlmlV^nTon 'th '"L"r 01
January next at the house of p£ti’r ’poleil."1
eweBL!/"K?T.tnt't‘EW' c°“«%
PROMPT WORST
AT WILLIAMS'.
$4000!
SOLD AND PAID BY WILLIAMS, Ir
Groton Monument, Class No. 4 Extra.
r A Prise of \ 100.
[ A Prise ol ( 100.
; All anld and paid by WILLIAMS ainco las
Wednesday.
i And WILLIAMS further lia« to my,
Coma buy a Ticker—don't daisy—
The 20,000 Hollar Pri*e
Ilia customers must i-mlmo.
Than again in quick aucRcmhiii
Have another in nomewmn.
10,000 more, you'll quickly feel
Coming directly fmm Ilia wheel;
O how it make, my Angara itch
To know damo Fortune, amiliug witch !
Will aonn turn out 6,000 mure
To pay up all tlint'a »n hack acore.
10,000 more will an rely follow—
So none can land, whan nano will borrow.
For Prim—not Blank*—call or send
to WILLIAMS. .
Nothing Venture ! Nothing Have ! !
E. WILLIAMS.
Litchfield, Dec, 8, 1B20 go
STOP THIEF.
STRAYED OR STOLEN, about the
SOtli of September last, two elegant two
year old HEIFERS, more than middling sixe,
tine a bright red, the other a deeper red.—
Whoever shall return said Heifers, or give in*
formation where they may he found, shall
have a reasonable reward, and charges paid.
JOSEPH WOODRUFF.
Goshen, Ike, g, 1U2D *86
NOTICE.
WE f he undersigned having been appoint
ed hy the Hon. Court of Probate for
the district of Sharon, Commissioners to re
ceive, examine, adjust and settle the claims of
the several creditors of the estate of
SAMUEL LEE, Esq.
late of Salisbury, in said district, deceased,
represented insolvent, and said Court having
limited and allowed six months from the 1st
day of December, 1080, for the creditors of
said estate to exhibit their claims to said Com
missioners, hereby give notice that wo shall
meet at the late dwelling House of the deceas
ed, on the first Tuesday of March, and the
81st day of May next, at nine o'clock In the
forenoon on each of said days, to attend to
the duties of our said appointment. All
claims not exhibited within the time limited
will be debarred a recovery.
William M. Burrall, f Commit
Euphalet Whittleskt, S aionert.
Split bur if. Dee. 1,18808C
NOTICE.
THE Court of Probate for the District of
Litchfield has limited six months from
the date hereof for the exhibition of claims
against the estate of
JOSEPH MERRIMAN,
late of Litchfield, deceased, represented in
solvent, and has appointed us, the subscribers.
Commissioners to receive, examine, and ad
just such claims—for which purpose we will
attend at the late dwelling house of the de
ceased. is Litchfield, on the first Tuesday in
January, end the first Tuesday in June next,
at 10 o'clock in the forenoon on each of said
davs, when and where all persons having
claims against said estate may present the
same, properly attested, to us for adjustment.
Joseph Biroe, 1 Commie
Whitman Kilborn, > T*™*'
Seth Lanoon, Jr. S nomr9'
All persons indebted to said estate are re
quested to make immediate payment to
William Bkere, Admin'r.
1. itch field, Dee. 4, 1889 *«
A FARM for sale,
SITUATED IN BETHLRM,
O three mllee north-west of the
Meeting House, on the road lead
ing from Belhlnm to Washington,
llO ACRJKS* with a house
and two hams thereon. Said form Is well
watered, is well proportioned for ploughing,
pasture, wood, and meadow land, and has a
good orchard. For further particulars, In
quire of the subscriber, living oti the premises.
SOLOMON LIN8LKY.
fkthlem, the, <t, men_ o gr,
Valuable Situation
FOR SALE.
SfJMIR subscriber offers for sale
-I- the pleasant situation ho now
occupies, in the town of Sharon,
a few rods north of the Meeting
ntainiog about Six Acres of Land,
n hrick Dwelling House, Office, Out Houses,
a good well of water, be. Part of the pur
chase money cun lie for a term of years If re
quired. For further particulars Inquire of the
suhscrihnr, on the promises.
JOHN W. SMITH.
Shm-on, Dec, 0, 1 t»t» tfofl
Selling Off at Cost.
LYMAN, PORTER & CO.
HAVE on hind a large assortment of most
kinds of IjiairOIlS,
which they will sell at the lowest prices.—
Those who arc in want will do well to call
immediately, "
Cheaper than Ever!
Lyman, Porter & Co.
Have received within the last week a new ami
splendid assortment of
DltY GOODS,
RtarMnsYt, Cvorttcip, set.
All of which they will barter for CASH or
ooon crrdit, CHEAP ns the CHEAPEST.
Goshen, Nov, 8, IQtO_ {fi 1
Cheap Cmoods,
M’CRACKAN & JARMAN,
NEW-HAVEN, CONN.
Ham lately received a very large assortment of
NEIV GOODS from Sew-Yoric. Also, a
splendid assortment of FRESH GOODS
direct from London, of their otcn impor
tation, which will he sold uncommonly
folO.—AMONO THEM ARE——
BLUE, black, olive and mixed BROAD
CLOTHS, Cashmeres, Sattinets.
1 BALE containing 18 Pieces of English
MERINO CLOTHS, an elegant article
for Ladies’ Dresses, Coats and Cloaks.
Black and colored SILKS, a great variety.
Dark Calicoes and Ginghams
Domestic Cotton Goods, very low.
100 Black Lace Veils, cheap.
1800 Yds English Thread Laces, Edgings
and Insertings
H700 “ Rnhhlnet Quillings and Footings
1800 “ Figured Bnhhinrtt I.aces
4-4, D-4 and fl 4 white Buhhinett Lace
ft-4 and 0-4 black do do for Veils.
At, SO,
4000 pieces Paper Hangings
and Herders, at reduced prices.
fcp’ M’C. & J. are also agents of John
M'Cracken of New-York, for the sale of
BOLTING CLOTHS
and MILLING ARTICLES generally,which
will he furnished at New-York prices.
Sew-Haven, Soy. 5, 1880Sm8t
j NOTICE.
rriAKEN UP hy thestihscri
A her, on tin* 27lli of N«i
v*mher last, a ilark red COW,
Jkmtmmam thirteen or fourteen years old,
with some white alimit the head, no artificial
marks. The owner is requested to prove pro
perty, pay chaigcs, and take her away.
HOSEA CRANDALL.
(ioshfn, Dec, 7, 18211 *26
Bridgeport Brewery.
nisi msm
THE public arc respectfully informed that
the Bridgeport Brewery is now in Adi
operation, ana have on hand, and ready for
delivery, in harrels and half barrels,
BEER
of as good quality as any manufactured in thu
United States. Orders left at the Brewery
in Beaver street, will be attended to with
punctuality and despatch, by
J. H. M’CULLOCH St CO.
Bridgeport, Sept. 22. I829 _3m 15
La Fogg’s Prize List.
Drmrn Ballots Groton Mon. Lot. class 3, Ex.
1 9 42 20 24 SB 56 30 23
Nos. 20 30 56 a Prise of
#100,
Also, a Prize of $50«
Sold in the above Lottery by LA FOGG.
Grand Consolidated Lottery, Class 3, draws
Dec. 23. Highest Prise.
#20,000.
10 of $ 1000. Tickets $8. j
Groton Monument Lottery. Class 6, Extra,
draws Dec. 24th. Highest Prise,
10,000, IOofIOOO.
Tickets 4 dollars.
N. B. For Tickets, wholesale or retail ap
ply to WM. LA FOGG.
Litchfield, Dec. 1. 25
STRAY HEIFER.
BROKE into the enclosure of the subscri
ber, on the 29th of November, a light
Brindlo two year old HEIFER, bug horns.
The owner is requested to call, prove proper
ty* pay charges, and take her away.
JOHN HUNGERFORD.
Harirsnton, JPc. |g, 18S9 2?
NATIONAL !Om.
NO. 112, BROADWAY, NEW-YORK.
(OrrosiTE m Citt Hotel.)
J. RIPLEY,
Formerly of the United States Hotel, Hartford,
Connecticut,
M RESPECTFULLY Interim hit
friend* and the public, thnt he ha*
taken the above splendid establish
ment, which la now undergoing a
complete alteration In painting and fixtures,
and will be furnished in the most modern
style, with new and elegant furniture, beds,
bedding, and mattrasses j and opened ter the
reception of company hy the SOtn September,
1040. Private parlors aro elegantly fitted up
for ladies and gentlemen, travelling either ter
business or pleasure; and ter the man of bu
siness particularly, Its location affords advan
tages not inferior to nny hotel. From the ex
perience of the proprietor and Ills family, he
feels a confidence in saying, that tho general
arrangement of tliu interior will be such as to
compete with nny establishment in the city,
and no exertion shall ho wanting to render the
stay of all its patrons agreeable.
New- York, Sept. 8,1_B40 gmlO
New Arrangement.
Litchfield, New-Milford, Dun
bury, and Norwalk
Mail Stage.
THIS Stage leaves Josinh Parks’ Hotel.
Litehfleld, on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and,
Saturdays, nt 0 in the morning, passing thro’
New-Preston. New-Milford, and Brookfield,
and arrives at Danbury to lodge; leaves Dan
bury nest morning for Norwalk, and arrives
in time for passengers to take the steam boat
for N. York. NO NIGHT-TRAVELLING.
Fare, through to New- York, $3,85.
RETURNING,
Takes the Norwalk passengers nt Dnnhury
on Monday, Wednesday, nnd Friday morn
ing, and arrives in Litehfleld the same day.
(t?“ For seats apply at the Bat nt Parks’
! Hotel. Litehfleld.
j II. BARNES, Proprietor.
Nov. 10, 1080 tf83
| VILLAGE LOTS. “
THE subscriberns agent of Gov. Wolcott,
offers for sale sundry valuable building
bits, in the village of Litehfleld, in the vicinity
of the residence of the late Judge Reeve, on
I v«ry advantageous terms to purchasers.
TRUMAN SMITH.
1 Litchfield, Nov. 18, 1880._23
LOOK AT THIS!
$20,000,
10,000,
10,000,
5000, 3000,
4000. 2000.
The above Splendid Prises for sale at
WILLIAM*’
Truly Lucky Lottery Office, LiTCHriKLD
Decemher 2_ * 33
Dr. Davenport’s Bilious Pills.
r|NHESK PILLS are justly esteemed for their easy
■* operation ntul gnoii efforts as it mild, safe, ami
sovereign remedy lor Bilious Fcvrrs, Pains in the
head, slomarli, ami bowels, jaundice and scumy,
piles, rlieitmittisni, inthiinimitinii of the eyes, female
rompbiiiiis, acid stomachs, indigestion, worms, erup
tions on the skin, dysentery, lolioim cholic, riisainess,
and headache. They are likewise nn antidote against
infectious diseases, removing nhsliurl’ons of every
kind, hv dissolving and discharging the morbid mat
ter, helping digestion, restoring lost appetite, and a
sure relief for costive habit*. They are so accommo
dated to all ages, seasons and hours, that they may be
taken in Winter or Summer, at any time ol the day,
without regard to diet or hindrance of business. Their
operation is so gentle, pleasant, and effectual, that by
experience they arc found to exceed any other physic
heretofore offered to the piildMir '$|io*e who are tra
velling by sea or land, will liml them a great preser
vation from the diseases of foreign climates.
From, the utknerons Certificates which might he
used, the proprietors will mjlka use of the Ibtlowiiig
only, from the lion. Phinent Allen, of Pittsfield, Ms.
“ Mr. DanMl—l have made use of various kinds
of Billious Pills in my family, nml I hesitate not to
say, that Dr. Davenport's are the best Family Medi
cine 1 ever used. PI1INEAS ALLEN.
Pittsfield, Ms. 1828.”
„ ALSO,
Davenport's celebrated Eye Water,
whic b needs only to he used tu lie highly approved of i
for ail sorts of weak and shre eyes. Also,
Wheaton’s Itch Ointment.
The character of this Oiatment is so well eetablish
cd as to need no recommendation*, lor being a plea
nsnt, safe ami sure remedy for that loathsome disease. I
It is also n cure for other eruptions of tlie skin, par
iiculariy for the salt rheum and chilblains. Priee 37
1-2 cents. Also,
Wheaton’s Jaundice Bitters,
which have been proved by thousands to bo so emi
nenily useful in removing all Jaundice and Billions
complaint*. Price 37 1-2 cents.
A fresh supply of the above is just received
and for sale in Litchfield by Drs. Abbe, W. tr
S. Buel, and S. R. Childs; in Burlington, by
T. Mason and Webster if Hitchcock; and by
the Druggists in New-Haven, Hartford, Mid
dletown, Saybrook, Albany, Netr- York, and
Bostoncoljf46 April SO
Clay's Itch Ointment,
For pleasantness, safety, expedition, case and cer
tainty, is infinitely superior to euy other cure to that
tormenting disorder.
Price 3d cents per box.
Clay's Stomach Bitters.
They will be found, in all eases of ike followia* de
scription, to give relief: nausea, vomiting, heartburn,
costiveness, weakness at the breast, painia the —
ach, loss or appetite, and all other symptoms of iHl
Pries 25 ceau a box. *
Pearl Tooth Powder.
This celebrated Powder needs no-nml,.
mrSold by w. St S. Bnei and J. Stoddard.
November 20, 1228