1 jp*m would do credit lo ths Italian.
L. ' GENERAL SCOTT’S DESPATCHES.
' * The official account! of the battle of Cerio
. *lQorda, a* contained in the despatch of Gener.
> "«1 Scott, have been received. He eetimetee the
..American lose in killed and wounded at 350,
v«nd the Mexican loss at 330, (peaks of the gal
^lautry and bravery of the officers and soldiers
* ' under his command in rhe highest tetms, and
. r ha calif the attention of the Government to an
V* |
if", admission contained in a prnclainotion hv San.
’• " t» Anna, and which was found among the cap.
'* ' lured papers, that the independence of the
' nation was gone if the Americans advanced be.
» ’Vond Vera Cruz.
QiJ-The Legislature of New York adjourned
n the 4th instant to meet again on tha Sth of
eptemhsr.
tyj-TUe New York License Law, which was
milar to our law repaalcd at the last session,
i submitting the question of license nr no li
mse to the towns t» be derided in town meet
g, has been repealed by a vote of 25 to 2 in
e Senate,and OS to 28 in the Assembly. This
ems to indicate that “ moral suasion” is the
tly power that can operate on this subject.
Am1 Haven Journal.
We do not know what law has been substi.
n_'d by the New York I* islature for the one
epcaled ; but presume ♦' w hole business of
censing the sale of spirits is left whore it
ad long been before the passage of the repeal.
1 law—with the town authorities, who can
ive or refuse licenses at their discretion. This
i just where it should have been left in our
wn Slate.
Tht License question in Boston. — Alter
long and severe discussion, it has been decided
by the casting vote of tbs Miyor that there
• hall be no licensed sale of intoxicating drinks
in Boston, the present year. The Committee
to whom the subject 'v-as referred report#,1 in
*avor of granting licenses to retailers.
Ko-ros to whom Honor, *o.—It has been
slated nr Sororalof (lie papers »U ilia day,origi
nating from the- Litchfield Enquirer, that the
Re; Isaac Joaes, now ot Litchfield, is the un
til#? of the inscription in the Judges'Cave, on
tVest Kock, “Opposition to tyrants ia «bedi
*r,e» to (lod ’’ Mr. Jones may have made such
an inscription but wv ate authorized to say
that the first inscription of this suntiboent there
ass mad# by trie Bon Kushs Hotelikiss, late
.i r d thici’■• f 1 ’ "c;e i .t end now in one
. ' « in- *rlm- >a - ' s> ..i Thisseems
me more .,i.n>at>ic. ir- it fact that the horn#
■rod birth-,il ice ,| Mr.H uchkiss was under and
near tile Rork, where he had daily access to
the cave. If there is any aierit in the matter,
whoever isrntitled to it should have it. “Let
eveiy tub stand on its own bottom ”
JS tw Haven Journal.
More probable, is it ? Why, Mr. Jones was
not only born “near the Rock,” but is a descen
dant of those who were the protectors of the
Regicides, and from childhood was taught to
admire their "resistance to tyrants.” We are
authorized to say that Mr. Hotchkiss is mista
ken.-—Ed, Enq. I’rotem.
W-A iranch Railroad from Litchfield to the
Cornwall Bridge Depot of the Housatcnic
Ror.d is in contemplat ioa The route has been
■urveyed. The distance is about tea miles.
Couraht.
All but the Rail.—Enquirer.
Mr. Dromgoole, of Virginia, whose death
immediately followed his re-eleclion tti the
seat which he has so long held in (lie National
House of Representatives, was an able and in
fluential man—but a slave to the destroying
vice of intempetance. If he had always been
true to himself, he would have been a distin
guished ornament ta his State and his country
Knickerbocker Cans,—Why are we led to
jnf#r that David and Joshua were intemperate
men? Because David, when he went out to
meet Goliath, “on the field of honor,” “foe* a
sling and Joshua, previous to his attack on
the walls of Jerico, “ tsok a horn," and bad a
••regular biota out.”
Remains af Col. Clay.—The Louisville
Jeitrnal of the lei inst , say* that Charles Rid
ley, Esq. left that eity last week en his war to
Buena Vista, charged with the duty of bring
ing home the remsine ef the late Col. Henry
Clay, and the soldiers frem that city who fell
at Buena Vista.
•dir* jririucni 9j o/ucc/y.—isms uruwn, n
colored man, was claimed in front of Indepen
dence Hall, Philadelphia, on Tuesday morn
ing ol last week, as a refugee slave trom Ma
ryland It created much exoitement. While
the trouble was going on, there was a carriage
near, in which sat a venerable Quaker lady
With his wife and four children.
Pennsylvnid Interest.—Hr. State Treasur
er Banks has issued a circular addressaed to
the several counties of Pennsylvania, urging
the repetition of endeavors to provide means
for tha payment of the interest due on the State
debt, on the 1st ef August next. This well
tfmed monition will doubtless be heeded, and
the boner of the State preserved by the piinc.
tual paymenl|of her due*.
The End not Vet—The Washington corres
pondent of the New York Globe, says:
We are told that Gen. Jeesnp, just returned
from the seat ol Wer, expreseee the opinion
that the war has just begun,and the end er the
Itime ef the end. cannot be conjectured ! Gen
Jeesup is an able man, of clear judgment, and
a brave officer, zealous and industrious in the
discharge of duty, and hat seen much danger
ous service. The opportunitiee he has had ol
forming an opinion, duviug his recent tour ol
inspection over Mexieo.would give to any such
opinion much weight and force. Wo learn that
in hie view, the war will be far from conclu
sion, even after our victorious forces shall have
taken poeeeeeseo ef the capital.
'
From the -V»f* York Expren.
The News from Mexico, to-day, is what
might bo expected, the ilight and diiperaal of
Santa Auna and his lorca, and the peaceful oc
cupation of Jalapa by our troops. Gen. Worth
too, occupies the next lowd en route, viz, Pe
rots. but at Puebla some distance further on,
resistance is threatened. The news is rather
vague, in the form we have it, and the above is
about alt that can be relied upon. Ilui it §*ems
probable that Gen. Scott will push on with all
spued toward the city of Mexico, and attempt
to confound the enemy by the rapidity and dar
ing of his march. It isa perilous undertaking
to appear Wore Mexico with the few men he
will have after properly garrisonirg the cities
rn his possession, hut if the thing can be done,
and the present Consternation of the Mexicans
can thus be improved, the successful result will
save us oceans ol blood, and perhaps “con
| finer ’ for us a temporary peace.
I h* Philadelphia Pennsy Iranian says :
The population of I’erote is orer ten thou
sand. It is distant from Jalapa about fifty
miles, and is nearly midway between the cap
ital and Vera Cruz. 'There is no place of im
portance after passing Perote until you come
to Puebla, a city of five thousand inhabitants,
with a thriving population, principally enga
ged in manufacturers of lead, cotton goods
glass, earthenware, and soap, with numerous
splendid churches—fine Spanish houses, w ith
lofty ceilings, and ornamented walls, broad
I clean streets, and a cathedral, the interior of
which is a perfect blaze ol gold and precious
stone.
Mr. Thompson in his work, calls Puebla
“the Lowell of Mexico. It is a Walled city,
and is distant Irons the capital about s. V. iitr
eight miles '“he only town of any note be
tween Puebla and the city of Mexico, is Cohn
ila, the ancient capital of a great independent
Republic, which contained during the time ol
Cortez, and accoidiag to hi*own account, forty
thousand hou ses The noted pyramid here is
a work ef art which, next to the pyramids ol
Egypt, approaches nearest to those of nature in
magnitude and vastness. Its base covers ups
wards of forty eighf acres of ground, or about
; four and a half times more than the largest
I Egyptian pyramids. v
| Cohuila is seventy miles fron) M.iico. The
capital is a walled city, but is,not supposed to
be susceptible of a stubborn defence. It isa
very wealthy city,and contains a population of
; one hundred and forty thousand, abounding in
fine buildings, costly , hurdles, public s.juaree.
; and broad and regular streets.
_
Mr. Burritt, writes (hat “ American beans
J are becoming a standing dish in England, Ire
land and Scotland, and are used instead of no
tatoes. They do net understand cooking them
in the good old Yankee •tile ; never having
[ known the blessedness of a put of baked beans
ala Connecticut. They biil them u.-u.tlly
without salt. I have tried to biiglitm up
j the remembrance »l toy good mother's way <t!
cooking beans, and have made several descents
into facie John's kitchen to show his servant
maids haw it was dune. 1 wish seme friend
in Norwich, Ct., w ho has lived near bean hill,
would communicate through the Citizen a re
ceipt lor one of thoie pots ot baked beans
which our pious forefathers used to eat iti their
pews of a Sunday noon, in the olden lime. 1
came away without being half equipped for tny
mission. Thajok nny cake works well.’’
Virginia.—The Whigs have fi of the Con
gressional delegation, the locos s, and one va
cancy, occasioned by the death of Mi Drorii
goole.
The Whigs have 10 majority in the House of
Delegates, and tits Loros Id majority in the
Senats—making a tie on joint ballot.
Ctrrespondenee of the .Ilian.
THE WHIGS TRIUMPHANT IN ILLINOIS.
Elgin, Kane Co., Illinois, May lid. 1 SI7.
Sirs—The dark Lorolorn Stale of Illinois is
redeemed and dUrnl/u ailed from Locotoroisin.
Illinois ranges herself beside the Whig States,
and cries for admission into the V\ hie ranks.
At the late election, for delegates to alter cr
form us a esnstitution, the Whigs will have
from five to ten majority. So says our Secre
tary of State ts uur Loco State Senator.
A vote of thauka to Gen. Taj lor was brought
before the Louisiana Senate on the 3dlh ult.,
but a Vote of two thirds could not be obtained
(or considering it. Nine WltigS and three Lo
res voted for it. but twelve locos voted against
it, and so prevented it being taken up.
j .decadent at L'tica.— While a concourse of
j people were witnessing the eeremeny ol bap
| tistn in the Mohawk river, at the foot of Gen
| esce Street, a portion of the foot path of the
j bridge, some filteen feel) gave way 2nd precU
| pilaled the persons upon it. 3d or 4'> in num
ber, upon the stone abutment ol me bridge,and
into the river, lit teen feet below.
One person (W. O Smith) was so crushed
that he died in the course of the afternoon.—
A number of others were severely injured, two
ladies had each a leg broken, and another un
arm.
“Thirk ark no Sabbaths in War
Tims.”
It is somewhat remarkable that the tact has
escaped the nslice of the newspaper press,
that ths battle of Cei ro Gordo was fought on
Sunday Gen. Scott’s plan of battle bears
evidence of having been drawn dp de liberately,
and his appointing the Christian Sabbath for
the dreadful work of destruction, was issued
without reference to any rrueigtuey, or any
circumstance* which were regarded as consti
tuting a pressing necessity for giving battle.
The attack was on our part, and might have
been delayed 21 hours, without detriment to
the plans of the war, and without hazarding
the safety of the army. But it is literally true
that there is. and that there can be lie Sabbaths
in war. Notwithstanding the laudations be
stowed upon Gen. Scott, for reverently hold
ing a candle in the Catholic Cathedral of Vera
Cruz a few Sabbaths before the battle, it is not
impiobable that amidst the din of the camp
and all the untoward influences under which
he conceived and published his plau of the
battle, Gen. Scott entirely forgot the interven
tion of a day of sacred and universal rest —
Why, indeed, should he remember or regard
It ? Why shpuld the uplifted arm of battle be
arrested or thecar ol conquest be stayed, by
ths inteifersnce ol an institution so utterly at
variance with the spirit of the Mexican war.
•s is the Christian Sabbath? Tl.'e spirit of
war and spirit <>f the sabbath cannot co-exist.
One must annihilate ths other.
Boston Travtl rr.
MARRIED.
In Albany, by the Rev. Dr. Campell, Jis. C
Marsh, of Rochester, to Miss Margaret A
Kenyon, daughter of Moses Kenyon, Esq , ot
Albany.
DIED.
In Cornwall, on the l9tb ult. Mrs. Bathshe
ba Cotter, wife ol Mr. Eber Cotter, aged 42.
... Ji
OCf- Wicket Ball.' —A game at wicket ball
i» to come off between the Married Men and
Bachelor* of Lit cl:field, onSaturday next at 2
o'clock P. M.
flCJ-Mr. J. K Averill, late of New Milford,
aad now of this village, proposes to publish a
daily *Hd weekly paper in tha city ol Hartford
to ba called the Hartford Republican. Averill
i* an edd fellow in more sense* than one.—
Success to hitn !
Amt a! of the Brittannia.— The British
mail steamer Britannia, arrived at Boston on
Sunday evening, bringing intelligence 14 days
later than by the previous arrival. There had
been considerable fluctuation in the flour mar
ket, but prices had settled down to 40* for
Western Canal.
The money market was very stringent, and
the prospect* of trade in tha maim tactui iog
districts si mt w halalarming.
The social and friendly intercourse and reU'
tionship of families is often iaterupted by the
inroads ot these feaaful ravagers of health
and life. Consumptive and scrofulous disease,
racking tha hones, and wasting the flesh and
driving to despair the mast beautiful, interest
ing and delicate forms, alike with those of ster
ner and more enduring strength Most provi
dentially has a singular coincidence of circum
stances revived and placed among us, the re
maikahle native medicines ef Brant, which
hare proved so invaluable as a sure reliance
for cure in these distressing complaints: 3
THE ILLUMINATI will meat a I
their fubum, on Friday evening next.
P‘r onlcr of the P P.
sacksTltT
tf t HE Subscriber*, having purchased a larger
.L quantity uf SACK SALT than nest coun
try dealers, afe enabled to sell tile Liverpool |
fine sack Salt large sacks, and in gr id order at
- 00 per sack. Also Liverpool ceaf-e salt in
sacks, the best article for salting Hay and Cat
tle at $1.7."> per sack. Also Grnund Rock Stall
the host tor salting butter, 2octs per sack.
We have in addition a larger slock and a
greater variety of Goods than is usually kept in
a country store, and all who are desirous to
purchase rhenp. and obtain the highest price
for their Butler and other produce are invited
to call.
K O. LAWRENCE Si CO
Norfolk. Mav 12, IM7. tf 1
REMOVAL.
LIAS HULL. Tailor, has liken the shop
J foimerlv occupied by Stephen Trowbridge
Esq , next west ol L J. Smith’s Store, where
lie is ready to wait upon old and new custom
ers. Thankful fur the liberal patronage he has
long received, lie will continue to use his ef
forts ’o satisfy all who mav see fit to call upon
him.
Litchfield. May IS 17. 3wl
lOOO PAIR
BOOTS AND SHOES
VT Reduced Prices for cash, may he found
at S Clock’s, one dn«r west of the Court
Mouse, and will be tillered at very low prices
for a few weeks.
Unsettled accounts are in such shape as to
require immediate attention. A word to the
wise is sufficient.'
u prore
Litchfield, Mar 18,1S17. ,
Wonderful Indian Hem
edyj
CIIAMiniKLAIN’S
Hew England
RESTORATIVE.
f|1HE abort named article is an elfectual
JL remedy for nil cases of Rheumatic
Jijfe client, Spinal Diseases, and for all kinds
of llumurt and Impurities in the Ulosti. It is
intended for all ages and constitutions, and is
made entirely of Roots aw! llnbs A simple
trial will convince the most skeptical of its
«llicienvy.
VOLATILE LINIMENT.
This is an invaluable compound lor Rheu
matism, Ague in the Face and Jaws, Neural
gia, Spinal Irritations, Sprains, and Weak
Joints. This Liniment has t.evcr failed in a
solitary cas ••
Cephalic Snuff*
A superior and efficient remedy for Catarrh,
Meagrims. Obsli notions in the head, etc. This
Suulf has been used by thousands, who have
spoken their judgement of its high merit and
claims.
These pllis aro intended to be used in all
otdiuury complaints—they maybe used as a
mild cathartic, or as a purgative cleansing
without debilitating the system. They are an
excellesl tonic, regulating the digestive or.
gang, without leaving the system in a costive
state.
Prepared and soldj by Dr. E. C. CHAM
BERLAIN, corner of Church and Crown Sts.
New Haven, Urinn.
N 13. The abote articles ran he procured
also from iiolle’s fc Well’s Litchfield, Conn.
S. Thomas ft Son. Plymouth Hollow. If 1
RAN AWAY from the subscriber; on the
J'Jd of April, an indentured colored Hoy
by the name of Cjeorge Camp, about lb years of
age. All persons are cautioaed against har
boring or employing him on penillt of the
law. l'rAI. F. NEWCOMB
New Preston, 17th_Mav 1S17. 1*
JYOTICE.
IN pursuance of an order of (lit Court of Pro
bate lor the Diatrict ol Litchfield, will be
sold at public auction (unices ptetiously dis
poned ol at private sale.) tbe equity of redemp
tion in the homestead of /crab Dealt, lato of
Cornwall, deceased, on Thursday .May 27,1847,
at 111 o'clock A. M Sale on ilie premises.
11. MILTON llAItf, Adm'r.
Cornwall, May IS, 1817. 1
District of Watertown, n )
Prolate Court. May 15, 1847. J
ESTATE of Samuel Woodruff, late of Wa
tertown in said District, deceased.
Tbs Court of Probate for the District ot Wa
tertown hath limited and allowed six months
from the date hereof, for the creditors of said
Estate, represented insolvent, in which to ex
hibit their claims thereto ; and haa appointed
Cyrus B. Mfnville and Bryant Johnson of said
Watertown Commissioners to receive and ex
amine said claims. Certified by
CHAHLES S. WOODWARD, Judge.
The subscribers give notice that they shall
meet at the Dwelling House of Cyrus B Man
villc in said Watettown on the third Monday*
of August and November 1847. at one o'clock
in the afternoon, on earli ol said days, for the
purpose of attending on the business of said
appointment.
CYRL'S B. MANVILLE, ) Commis
BRYANT JOHNSON, j sioner*.
All persons indebted to said Estate, are re
quested to make immediate payment to
1* ELKAZEB 8. WOODRUFF, Judge.
At a Court of Probate holdrn at Harwinton,
lord, wtlhin and for the District of Har<
Milford, on the loth day of May 1847.
Present Marlin Cook Jd, Esq Judge.
THIS Court (loth diiect the Administrators
on the estate of Alva Scovill, late of Har
winton in said diatrict, deceased, to appea,, if
they see cause, belnre the Court of Probate, to
be hidden at the Trobate Office in laid District
on iheQist day of May 1847 at 1 o’clock P. M.
t* be beard relative to the appointment of
Commissioner* on taid eatate, by posting said
nrdev of notice on a signpost in said town of
Harwinton nearest the place where the decent
ed last dwelt, sad by advert if iqg the same in a
newspaper publiebed in Litchfield.
Certified from Record
2 MARTIN COOK 2d, Judge.
4
W-Th* only anginal nod genuigf Indian Ve.
(■table Pills have the signature of WILLIAM
WRIGHT written with a pen ea the top label
of each bos. None other is genuine, and to
counterfeit is forgery.
For sale by LYMAN J. SMITH,
6w49 Agent ter Litchfield.
A. C. SMITH,
HAVING recently returned from NewYork
with a large and handsome assortment
of GOODS, which with his lormer stock em
braces almost every article called tor in a
country atorc, avails himself of this method to
inform his customers and the public generally
lhat he intends selling as low lor cash, barter,
or approved credit, as articles ot the same (jua
lify can be purchased in this vicinity.
At A, C.’s may lie (ouud PROVISIONS and
FAMILY GROCERIES of good (juality—Also
Ploughs, Hoes. .Scythes, Spades, Forks and '
Farming Utensils generally. Hardware, Join- j
ers' Tools, Shoes, Boots. Hats, and Caps of ev» j
ery size and (juality—Good Molasses at Two
Shillings per gallon. 17 cents per pound
will be given,for good Butter during the week
and the very highest market price for all othci
kinds of produce Potash of superior (juality
Litchfield, May 11th,IS47. 1
Important News!
New York Spring and Summer Fashions
Received.
T WAS well aft-are that the present style of
Cutting Gentlemen's Garments was very
difficult to those that cut by the old short
waisted system.
L would say to my old cos' miers and as ma
ny new ones as will fav. r ine with their pat*
innage, that 1 have just returned (rom New
York, where I have been learning the hoof
Mcaaurc Sytltm of G. C Scott.
Mr. Scott is known and acknowledged by all
Tajlqrs ill the city and country to be the best
Reporter of Fashions and the best Teacher of
Cutting in the Empire City. I am now at my
old stand in Goshen Centre, prepared to exe
cute all orders in the tailoring line of business
in the best possible manner art! at short notice.
N. B All garments warranted to be cut in
good taste and as near the customers fancy as
possible. The best feature in the present fash
ion is the remarkably easv Gt of all garments.
J. W. LANE.
Goshen, May 10th, IS 17. 6w1
JAMES W. WILSOH
fKp, T'XTISHES toinlorin the in
VV hab^ants ol Litchfield
fiTiftrii TV a>l<* v>c<r'>ty,y ^‘at 'ie has mov
fA ed his shop to the 3d door
West of the Court House, and
keeps on hand an assortment of all kinds el
Gentlemen’s and Lcdies’, Misses and Children’s
BOOTS AND SHOES,
all of which will be seld ns cheap as the
cheapest, or than was ever offeicd before in
tnis place—and 1 would here foluru my most
sincere thanks for the many favors and liberal
patronage extended thus far, and hope for an
increase of the same. Customers' Boots and
•Shoes made to order and warranted to lit.
Repairing done ill the uealest manner and
at short notice.
Litchfield.May II, 1SI7. 1
CORJVUMLL WtLLEA'
•I CtEMfLJfl I*.
rpilIS Academy will commence its Summer
A Term on the 3d Tuesday of May inst. un
der the instruction Of R S. Howes, A. M., late
ol Troy, N.Y. Mr. H. for seven years past,
has been the Principal of Troy Academy, an
insUtdtiun which has sustained, under his tui
tion, a rank among the first Afcadetnie* in the
country. Wishing to connect a boarding es
tablishment with his srhoul, he hai resigned
his situation in Troy, and selected the retired
and pkwsant valley of &julh Cofnwdll as a
place peculiarly adapted to his purpose. He
hopes, in this most desirable locality, to esta«
blish a school which shall be of the highest
order, and ou a permanent basis.
Tikmi—For ordinary English branches
Languages and higher mathematics fti.
Rkkurkncx*—Rev N. S. S. Ikinan, I). D.,
and R.-v. E. W. Andrews, Troy ; Trustees of
Troy Academy. 1*
HARWINTON ACADEMY
•f Boarding School for
Boys
Z. MOST AGUE r HELPS, A. M.
.m wr -.m
rlUS Institution is situated in Harwintnn,
Litchfield county, Connecticut, is easy ct
access, and has daily communication with
Hartford, New Haven and New York.
The location is healthy and pleasant and free
from the demoralizing influence oflarge towns
and cities, and the neighborhood is decidedly
moral and religious. Parents may feel gteat
security for the health and innfals of Iheit sons
in this place. THuy will Itodid with the
, principal, bo constantly under hit rare, and
have his best eflurts to render them as comfort
able and happy as possible. He has had many
years’experience in leaching, arid can saftdy
promise young gentleman great facilities in
prbparing for College, or the dutiy^ of active
life.
The first session of the Schord wilt com
mence on the loth of May, and continue 22
weeks. Charge for Tuition, Hoard, Washing,
e\c.,$75one half in advance.
Reference is made to Hie following gentlemen :
President and faculty of Williami College,
Mass
Rev. C. Bentlv, Harwinten, Conn;
Rev. Mr. Gardner, “
T. Kellogg, Esq., *• “
P W. Noble. Esq . •«
A. Ahernethy, M.D. “ “
A Cutlin, Esq.; “ •*
llev. John Marsh, Brooklyn, L t.
V. Perkins. Esq., ’• “
-McLelland, M. D.,“ •*
C. N. Case. Esq. “ ••
S. F. Phelps, Esq. “
S. Swift, Esq. “ ••
Rev E. C. VVoodwerlh, Now York City.
S R. Childs, Si. D. «■ »
D Lalhrnp, Esq. *' 11
S. fluSt.Ksq , “ “
Leavitt, Trow &co. “ “
llarwinton, May, 1917.
JYO Tick
TJAHE undersigned, have this day formed a
X Copartnership, under the fit tri of
FINCH & KELLOGG,
to continue the mercantile buainess, at the
Store lately occupied by John P. Porter, and
would announce to their friends and the public
generally, that they have on band a large, new
and well selected assortment of Dry Goods,
Groceries, Hardware and Crockery, which will
be sold at a small advance from cost for ready
pay. Also, a good assortment of Carpeting,
and all other articles usually kepi in a country
Store. HfeNRY L. FINCH.
JAMES E KELLOGG.
Weet Cornwal I, April 1,1817. 1
ST. Psff/XM
COLLECtUTE INSTI
TUTE
THE next session of this Institute will
commence 1st Weducsday in May, end
continue twenty two weeks.
Trrmt of Tuition for Day Scholar!—Clan
aical $20. English $15 per session of half year.
Board and tuition 8*00 per year.
A few ladies can be received—to whom no
extra^barge will be made for Drawing end
I Peinting.
’ P. S. No student will be received for lees
Ilian one session. In cones of iickntu deduc
tion in tuilimi will be made for one half the
time of absence. J. D. BERRY.
Litchfield, April 1847. 48
NEW GOODS.
THE Subscriber would respectfully
announce to hit friend* and the pub
lic that he has again tilled up his store |
with one of the most desirable stocks of j
Goods he has ever offered, and which he •
is disposed to s< It for good rxr on the
most favorable terms. Among the futicy
goods are
Black and fancy Silks
Brocbn, Cashmere, Stradilla and Barege
Shawls and Scarfs
Linen and Co'.ton Ginghams and Lawns
Elegant p. inted Muslins
Very low priced do
Every vat ieif of Mousclin DcLajfe.some
as low us 1 shilling
White dress Muslins and Cambrics
Every style of Prints
Linen Cambric lidkfs from 10 to 70cls i
Fine White Cotton Hose 12 1-2 to 25 els ;
Gloves, Laces, Fancy Funs, Ac., anil a j
beautiful assortment of Parasols, Pa1- j
rusoletles, and Umbrellas
Ladies’ Skirts, Linens, Ac
Very heavy brown Sheetings
Fine unbleached do. and English Cheese
Cupping, cheap
A great variety of Broadcloths, Oiissi- 1
meres end Vestings, Twevds, S.iti- 1
netts, Summer Cloth Ae Ac j
HATS and CAPS of every style
A large and very select assortment of
BOOTS and SHOES
Elegant and low priced Ladies’Slippers.
The Grocery Department is complete.
Best St Croix and P R Molasses
Sugars ut lowest prices
Teas of every quality, some extra fine
Tubs and Pulls
Hardware and Crockery
Oils and Paints, cheap as the cheapest,
A share of patronage is respccllully
solicited.
WM. LAWRENCE.
Not folk, May 5, 1847, 51
I
I
AT THE OLD STAND IN
imc. ao am. k-" m m m ... muz. <9
MISS B. DOWD would respectfully
invite the Ladies of Norfolk, nn'd
vicinity to call and examine lior New
Goods, which she has just selected in the
cily of New York. <Slie is now able to
show to her friends, a beautiful assort
ment of Tuscan, Straw, and plain silk,
nni shir bonnets, of the latest fashions.
Also cups, and a full assortment of Rib
bons, flowers and luces. Paris gloves
all sizes and color— together with a vnrs
iety of fancy articles of trimmings, such
us gimps, fringes; buttons steel beads,
bag clasps, purse twist; hair pins, perfo
rated paper, and zephyr worsted. Oil,
silk, silk canvass, teeth brushes j«*I. nee
dles. Collars, muslin and camoRc edg
ings and insertion, a good ussortmunt.
Dress Making done to order.
Norfolk, April 27, 1947. 50tf
Ground Planter.
FOR St.le by, PRATT & FOSTER.
West Cornwall, May 7th 1817.
Doet. Robert R. Folgcr’s
OLOSAONIAN
OR
lALL-HEALING BALSAM.
BE WARE OF DECEP TIONSf ERA LTD
AN Advertisement having made its appear
ance in this paper, stating that my genu
ine Olosaonian was for sale at various places
in Litchfield county, the public ate hereby in
formed that iny genuine preparation is only to
»e found in one sized bottles and thbse large at
#1 per bottle, and that the label on the Same
reads Doctor Robeft It Fidget’s OloSaonian or
All Healing llalsim, and my name is signed at
lie bottom with a pen. The spurious article
is put up in much smaller bottles, is Wrapped
in salmon colored papet.and tny fall name is
not found on the lop of the label. The Spuri
ous article alluded to [ never ptepartd and
have nothing Jo ilo with.
Agents for Litchfield Coiiniy— A. C. Smith,
Litchfield; Lathrop.V Kradfohl, Wolcoltfille;
Nathaniel Smith, Torringtou ; Alvord &. Bro
thers, New Haitfoitj ; E. S, Woodfoid; Win
sted ; E. G. Lawrence & Co. Norfolk; Oliver
Ames, Falls Villagp; Finch & Kellogg, West
Cornwall; George H. Chase, Sharon , Gregory
Hi. Pierce. Cornwall Bridge ; D. B. Scofield iL
Co. Kent.
1 ROBERT B. FORGER, M.D.
JLostl £ont!
ARORR of Mtfsic, consisting of Semo b! flic
- most popular songs of the present day ;
among which were the “Bridge of Sighs,”
“ She doth all things Well,” A Way down East,”
was lost in tiiis village or Vicinity, a fevf days
since. Each piers Was marked C; T. Woodruff,
arid is valuable cliielly to the owner. Whoever
will return said Music, to, or gi/e infotinuliun
where it may he obtained, at this office, Shall
receive both the thanks of the Subscriber and
a liberal reward. C. T WOODRUFF.
May 1 llh, 1847. 1
District of A rto Milford, is. }
Probate Court;./iprtl 10,1S17. J
ES TATE,of Nathaniel Peiry, late of New
Millard, in mid District, deceased, The
Court of Prohate for the District of New Mil
ford, hath limited and allowed six trionths from
Ihc dale hereof for the creditors of said Estate,
represented insolvent, in which to eXhjon
thsir claims therein ; and has appointed Joel
\V. Northrop, and Noble S. lierirtitt of said
New Milford, Colhinissionefs, to receive and
examine said claims Certified by
JULIUS B. HARrtlSON, Clerk.
The subscribers five notice that they shall
meet at tha late residence ef Nathaniel Perry,
in said New Milford, on the loth day of Mav,
and on the Oth of October, !SI7, at |io o'clock
in,the forenoon, on each of said days, lor Ihe
purpose of attending on the business of said
appointment.
JOEL W, NORTHROP,) „
NOBLE S. BENNITT, \ Cun,m''"toner*.
All persons indebted to Said Estate are res
!|liested to make immediate payment to
W S. STARR, } .. .. . . ,
N H PFRRV j •vuAtifiii/rdiOf#,
JYOTitlJE.
THE Court of I’robutu for Litchfield
District hath limited nud allowed 6
months from this lid duy of May 1347, to
the creditors of the estate of Mart Dim
isg, lnte of Litchfield, in suit] District, de
ceased, within which io exhibit their
claims ng.iinst said estate for settlement.
All elairns not presented within said lime,
properly ntteated, will be barred a recov
ery. LbcRxru Dnurxo, Executrix.
Litchfield, May 3J, 1847. 51
District of IVushittglon, ss. )
Probale Court, April 2'id, IS 17. J
ESTATE ot Mary Clark, late of Washing
ton in said District, deceased
The Court of Prebate lot tha District of
Washington hath limited and allowed six
months from the dale hereof, for the creditors
of said Estate to exhibit their claims for set
tlement Those who neglect to present tbeir
acceunts. properly attested, within said time,
will be debarred a reoovery. AU persona in- /
dsbled to said Estate are ro^uestsU lo make im- /
mediate payment to j
51 D. G. PLATT, Administrotor.
NEW STORE
NEW GOOBS/
SMITH * IcKIEL.
HAVING taken the Store recently occup?-*
ed as a Post Office, ate Ho* opening
large and general assortment of English at «£
O. mestic Goods, kucli as BROAD CLOTHS
CASS (MERES—At. do Lair.cr, Cashmere- t
Ginghams and Prints—Casho.cre and Fam /
SHAWLS, K-e. *e.
Also, Groctiios. Crockery, Glass and Hard-*
ware, 1- arming Utensils, &c all nf which with
be Sold at low price*. AH lynds of produce?
taken in pay mi nt for Goodk, .
Their old triends and customers are respect
triply invited to continue their patronage,as re*
pains will be spared to merit a continuance < t
the same.
Litchfield, Mat 3. 1317. 3w5t
DISSOLUTION.
f J7HE Copartnership heretofore existing uit-'
I der the name atritf firm of CLOCK &.•
FORD, is by mutual consent, this day dissolv
ed- All persons having ansi-fled accounts with
said firm, are requested to settle the same with
Samuel Clock, immediately.
SAMUEL CLOCK,
H. N. FORD.
May S'h, 13-17.
S. Clock will remain at I lie old Stand a few
weeks, and will he happy to adjust all accounts,
alier that they may be found in the hands of ate
Attorney for collection. 51
FOR SA1
CONVENIENT DWELL
ING HOUSE for a small lain-’
ily, with two avres nf first rale
meadow land, together with \
small barn, a good well of water near the
house, and within a short distance of the sarro'
an excellent spring, which aflords an abundant
supply of soft water tbretrgfi the driest seas c.
It is |deasantly ilitoa ed in Prospect Street in
this village, within half a mile Of the Com-1*
House.
Also. 10 acres of excellent land within a’
short distance of the above hntise,the princip; l
part of Which is valuable upland meadow, wel r
adapted also to plowing. The residue consis. *
of good pasture land. Said land has a variety'
of valuuble engrafted fruit trees on it, and i*5
well watered by springs which do not fail in
the driest seasons—is well fenced with stone*
wall, and well calculated to divide if necessa-*
ry to accommodate two purchasers. Any per
desirous to farm it upon a small scale and be*
employed a part of the time with a team,
would meet with good encouragement
the inhabitants of this village arid would find
the abeve property Well calculated to suit!
them. Terms low, and a liberal credit giver*
for a considerable part ol the purchase money
if desired.
Also at ,a cheap rate a good second hand
Chaise and Harness.
For further particulars enquire of
OLIVER GOODWIN.
LitchGeld May 5th, 1317. 3w3I
Norfolk Academy.
r HE Summer Term of this Academy will
commence on Wednesday, the 27th ins:,
file Trustees with contidence, can recoin
mend the Principal, Mr. Kick, as one of thn
most competent teachers.
Hoard for Young Ladies and Gentlemen cat*
be obtained in respectable families.
Terms from 3 to #4, according to the studied
pursued.
In behalf bf (he Trustees,'
, WM. LAWRENCE, Clerk.
Norfolk, May 5,1347. 31
School for Young Ladies*.
BITCH FI ELD, CONN.
riYllE Slimmer Term of 22 weeks in thi9 inw
X stitution will commence Wednesday>
May 12th.
Celebrated for healthfulness, beautiful sce
nery, and the refinement of its inhabi.ant.- :
i he number ol pupils in the boarding depart
ment limited to 8 or 10, exclusively under the?
charge of the Principal: it is believed few
places of education could be selected so desirw
ble as the presqpf in this village.
Called to urbanize and control an institu
tion, maintaining at present a standing among
the first Seminaries in our country ; this e.vJ
preSsiori of cuntidencc with others prior and
subsequent from gentlemen of the highest die->
unction and influence in the Stele of New'
York, will be a aritlit-ient pledge of the thoi-'
(high systematic and liberal course of study fir
be pursued.
Amorig the many distinguished names an
references the following (with two exceptions)
have been the patrons ol the Principal in fora
iner places of instruction.
Win. B Sprague 1) U. of Albany.
Prof. Yales, Union College, Schetiectady.
Gen. Swift, Henry Dwight Esq.j and Judge'
Whiting, Geneva. .
Judge Chapin, James Seymour, and James
K. Livingston, Trusties bf Rochester Female
Academy.
Pr. Vermilyea, of the Collegiate Chnrches.
Chattel! Butler ESq., New York City.
Tehns for Board and Instruction in English!
branches, #173 per annum.
InSIruction in Mimic. #10 per quarter:
Frenbh and Latin each #3 do.
Day Scholars, Junior Department #f 2 pr. qr.
Senior do #(c, do.
JVb Scholar received for less thtrri a Term.
Circulars upon application to the Princlpai.
..., J, H. JONES
Litchfield, March 2Slh, 1347. 4(t
GOLDEN HILL BOARD
ING SCHOOL
For Young Ladies,
BIUDUEPURT, CORN.
fTOMIS Institution is designed to combine the
means ot actjuitiiig the solid attainments
JL and elegant accomplishments of a finished
education ; a spaclotis hot.'se, beautifully Ioea«
tod—a bathing footrf—conveniences tor sea
bathing on a retired beach —efficient and beau,
tiful philosophical apparatus,comprising a pa
tent lever ait pump, plate glass electrical ma
chine, the Magdeburg hemispheres, a battery
of Leyder jars, and numerous other pieces_
thorough instruction in every department, pari
ticularly in the French—and a union in the
head of gentleman and a lady—are advantages
which may commend it to parents and guar
dians. Apply by mail;
Rev.'DAVID DE FOREST ELY,
Mrs CAROLINE C. ELY.
April 1847- _* Principals;
.It a Court of Probate hot Jen at A'ewMilford.
within and for the Ditlriel of JkTew Mtiforik
on the 2fi//l day of Avrif A It 1S17:
Pretent Thom a* B Lacy h'.tq. Judge.
ON' motion of Marcus O. l'latt, AdininU?
Iratur on the estate ol’Stielderi Platt, late
ot New Milford within Said district, deceased;
this Court doth decree that six month* from
this date be allowed aod limited (or tb* credi
tors of said estate to exhibit their claims w
gainst (lie same to said .Administrator ;
directs that public iiotlce be given »f this wafer
hy advertising in a newspaper published iu
Litchfield, and by posti»< a copy thereof on
the public sign post in said town of Mil
foul nearest the place where the deceased last;
dwrlt. Certified from Record1,
31 JULIUS B. HARRfSON. Clerk.
PERSONAL PROPERTY AT AUC
TION.
THE undersigned, Administrator on the
Estate of DANIEL GARRfTT, Jr., de
ceased, w;il sell at Public Auction, on Tt
day the 20th May, variou* article* of
property, among which are the Vito-i- *l
rwo Cults, l Buggy Wapgoi,. *Su .h =—
tng Utensils and Carpenter*' to..u *j u *rm‘
hold Furniture. SaU u L J^}*'
at the late residence i»f the d*^^“ 1 P' M‘
Litchfield, i, , Wwiloarritt:
. > ' 4 • v.,. '
________ ^