2 THE GAZETTE,
sa^iiawnKSBJBWiE®.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1840.
PRESIDENTIALELECTION.
Maine.
Although the Whig, have been ahead in Maine,
from the receipt of the fu st returns, a shade of doubt
has still hung orei the result, in consequence of the
close run. The Baltimore American, of 1 uesday, ;
puts the question at rest. The whole State is heard
from, except nine small towns, which only gave at
the September election, 303 votes, and they ware
about equally divided between Kent and Fairfield.
About 100,000 voles have been thrown, out of which
the Harrison ticket has a majority of 749. This
majority may be increased or diminished some 20
or 30 votes.
I
I¥ew Hampshire.
We have not >et tha exact returns. Van Buien’i j
majority i« aomothing over 6,000.
Vermont.
Partial returns show a Harrison gain upon the
sweeping Whig majority at the Slate election.—
Ibe estimate ol the Harrison majority ranges from
10 to IS thousand.
Massachusetts
Has literally awept l.ocofocoism from her bor
ders. All ibe towns are heaid from but one. The
majority foe Harrison and Tyler is 18,347. New
Marlboro, the remaining town, gave in 1839 a Loco
loco majority of lfi. The lion. Marcus Moiton,
who after running without success upon the Loco
loco ticket for Governor tor a number of years, was
last year elected by one vote in consequence of a
division among the Whigs, is iu the recent election
some fifteen or twenty thousand voles in the teai
of honest John Davis, who lias been thus tiiumph
amly called to administer the government of the
old Bay State. 1 lie only Locofoco elected to Con
gress is Mr. Parmenter, by some 8 or 10 votes.
The Legislature is thoroughly Whig, thus securing
the election of a Senator in Congress.
Pennsylvania.
In another column will be found the full returns
of the election in Pennsylvania. They are copied
from the official returns in Harrisburg. The exact
Hartison majority is 313. There was some ap
prehension that the number of scratched tickets
might have defeated some one, two or more of the
Harrison electors, but upon examination it appears
that there are not 20 votes between the highest and j
lowest on the Whig ticket.
Delaware,
She that was to have been put into Van's breeches
pocket. Has »he not bravely repelled the insinua
tion of her subserviency ? Look w hatn clean sweep I
she has made. Majoiity for the Harrison electoral
ticket 1008 votes. 1 he State election falling upon
the same day, the Whigs carried the Governor,
Member of Congress, three Slate Senators, (all that
•were elected) and every Member of the Home of
Repreeentativee. What a spectacle J The popu
lar branch of a State Legislature without a loco lo
co voice in it.
Virginia.
We have not yet returns whose accuracy can be
relied on, although all the counties are beard from.
Van Baren certainly has got the electoral vote by a
majority ranging from 500 to 1000. The vote has
been the largest ever cast in Virginia, by many thou* J
sand, ami the frauds upon the right of suffrage un- '
paralleled in this Stale. Startling disclosures have !
been made of the conduct of the Commissioners, in ;
many counties, but mortifying as it may be to J
Virginia Whigs to see her vote cast for tho advo
cate of negro suffrage and negro testimony, they
are yet indisposed loan angry coilentioD and inves
tigation that would fan the flarnc of party spit it. ,
North Carolina
Voted on the 12th inst. We have a few returns ,
•bowing a decided Harrison gain. All agree, that j
the Whigs have carried the State. The majority i
we think cannot fall short of 12,000.
Georgia.
Return, ure received from 81 counlie,, leaving |
thirteen yet lo come in. The majoiity fur (lain,on i
•nd Tyler t, abovo 9000, more thitn double the I
• vrtiig” majority at the October *1 action. The ie- ;
maining counties are small, and can by no meant
at feet the result, although the mujerity may be ie- |
duced a few ha ad red votes.
Alabama
Seems determined to get into the Whig line with 1
her neighbors, if Let fust gun is a symptom of what '
ts to come. Mobile county, thu head quarters and
•trongtiold oi locofocoum until the August election, '
when the Whigs succeeded by 98, has now given !
Tip and Tyler 432 majority.
TennesMt-.
1 he Whig* have achieved a biiiliaut victory in
Tonneasee, and it is peculiarly gratifying, because
n carries with it a blasting rebuke, of the undigni- !
fied and degrading action of General Jackson, in
the canvass. Alas ! that he who had so long been
the idol of popular worship and applause, should
b« forced into a position where he must l>« met by
the scorn oft* those who had often given him ::»•••. ,
highest confidence.
The returns are from 58 counties, and give Hur
rison a majority of 10,557, the same counties hav
ing last year given Polk (Loco Loco, a majorily ;
for Governor of 1,471. Whig gain 12,028. The
remaining counties cannot vary the result much —
Harrison’s majority will be about twelve thousand. :
lMis8issi|>pi.
Even in Mississippi the Whig prospects a re blight. :
More than half the State is heard from, viz! 28
countias, and they give Harrison 3,650 majority,
being a gain since 1839, of 2274.
Louisiana.
Majority for Harrison, in 15 parishes, 2,2(3, be
ing a small Harrison gain upon the July election.—
I ho W Uigs calculate that tbe rnajotuy will reach
3,000.
Illinois
Hives the highest promise of an unexpected Whig
'ir’ory. The majority for the Harrison ticket in
63 counties is 2145, showing a Whig gain on the
August election, of 4728. If the Whigs do no more '
than hold their own in the remaining counties, Har- j
rison has ’he State by a handsome majority.
Michigan.
The Loco Foeos have been shockingly bit in
Michigan. She has dashed all their hopes by giv
ing Old Tip a majority of about 2,000 votes, and
electing a thorough Whig Legislature. This die
poses of Mr. Senator Norveli, and secures a sound
Whig iu his stead.
ILLUMINATION.
A numerous meeting of the Harrison Association
en Monday evening, unanimously determined to
carry out their original design of a general illumi
nation, in honor of the triumph of the Whig cause.
For ourselves, we felt a strong inclination, to dis
pense with any further manifestations of joy and
to encourage by every means, that kindness and
good feeling, which is indispensable to the comfort
of every community. We have freely yielded, how
ever, to the very general wish of the Whigs of the
town and county, and trust, vital the affair may be ,
gotten up in a manner worthy of its gieat occa
•ion. It is not a fit occasion for a triumph ovei j
our adversaries who are our brethren and fellow-cili- 1
r.ens, many of whom have pursued the hone*t, t
though, we think, erroneous, convictions of their !
judgment, but the result is on* illustrating the beau
tiful symmetry of our republican form of govern
i menl, and promising peace, prosperity and happi
r mess, to the citizens of this blessed land.
The proceeding* of the meeting and the arrange- .
j ments proposed by the comtnitte, will be found in
another column.
\ Whig banner in one of the Western proces
sions had the letters
K. K. K. K. K.
Kinderho ik karididat* kant kome it kwite.
Wo continue below our record of the re
sult of the election for Electors of Presi
dent and Vice President of the United
States, on the 2d inst. Wo have not yet
received the officiul return* from Virgi
nia, but there is no doubt of the State
having gone for Van Buren.
Harrison. Vs.n Bcrkk.
MAINE, 10
NEW HAMPSHIRE, 7
VERMONT, 7
MASSACHUSETTS 14
RHODE ISLAND, 4
CONNECTICUT, 8
NEW YORK, 42
NEW JERSEY, 8
PENNSYLVANIA, 30
DELAWARE, 3
MARYLAND, 10
VIRGINIA, 23
TENNESSEE, 15
KENTUCKY, 15
OHIO, 21
INDIANA, 9
GEORGIA, 11
I MICHIGAN, 3
LOUISIANA, 5
215 30
ITNNSYLVANIA.
The following are the official retut na of the elec
tion in Pennsylvania for President and Vice Presi
dent. They are copied from the official report from
Harrisburg.
Countier Harmon Van ft urea
Adstns 2543 1628
Allegany 7620 4573
Armstrong 1260 1744
Beaver 3143 1710
Bedford 2910 2446
Berks 3582 7425
Bttrks 4705 4188
Bradford 2631 2814
Butler 2100 1804
Crawford 2469 2908
Chester 5643 4832
Columbia 1325 2329
Cumberland 2790 2695
Cambria 311 920
Centre 1447 2242
Clinton 637 649
Clearfield 499 812
Clarion 648 1366
Dauphin 3124 2187
Delaware 2031 1335
Krie 3636 0061
Fayette 2755 3035
Franklin 3586 2892
Greene 1350 2010
Huntingdon 3826 2266
Indiana 1953 1209
Jefferson 476 592
Juniata 966 1043
Luzerne 2774 4119
Lancaster 9678 5472
Lebanon 2369 1402
Lehigh 2405 2451
Lycoming 1504 2181
Montgomery 4063 4869
Mercer 3249 2336
Monroe 345 1447
Mifflin 1226 1269
McKean 263 276
Northampton 2846 3838
Northumberland 1351 2137
Philadelphia county 10189 13303
Perry 1072 1970
Philadelphia City 7655 4774
Tike 135 621
Potter 180 363
Sometset 2501 765
Schuylkill 1881 2181
| Susquehanna 1560 2023
Tioga 895 1721
Union 2423 1518
Venango 855 1275
Washington 4147 361 1
Wayne 675 1188
Warren 827 929
Westmorland 2778 4704
Yotk 3792 438 i
1 14.019 143,676
143 676
llsirison'a majority 343
The whole number of votes taken was 287,695.
MARYLAND.
The following uro the (unofficial) rc
i turns of the result of the election for Pre
sident and Vice President, on the 2d of
November, 1840, in Maryland.
Harriton. Van Burtn
| Allegany 1271 1093
Anna Arundel 154 maj
| Annapolis 189 123
illaltiinore city 7296 7327
: Haiti more county 1941 2620
I Calvert 169 maj
Curoline 687 537
Carroll 1544 1612
j Cecil 1188 1053
! Charles 340 maj
Dorchester 1381 639
Frederick 2958 2624
Harford 1347 1246
| Kent 679 475
Montgomery 873 542
Prince Georges 400 maj
Queen Anne’s 778 661
Somerset 1516 846
St. Mary’s 896 415 '
Talbot 719 685
Washington 2485 2290
Worcester 1492 692
30330 25680
25680
Harrison’s maj. 4,650
The above shows a Whig gain of 1879 i
on the October election, and 866 on the
: Presidential election of 1836.
mmmmmmmmrnmmmmmmmm . <■'■■> " 1 1 L'iM
We find the following handsome and appropriate j
remarks in the N*w Y'»rk Signal:
THE PRESIDENT ELECT.
William Henry Harrison is, beyot I u?l doubt, at
this time the President Elect of these L ted States.
The doom of Mr. Van Buren and hi* party is **al !
ed. The people have returned a verdict aeoinst
them with an overwhelming timaon/n y; and who j
can set aside the sentence which has been pronoun- ■
cedT
The political revolution just effected is undoubt- j
edly the most remarkable and important that ins
ever been accomplished through the peaceful agen- j
cy of the ballot box. For twelve long yeais a puli
cy has been pursued by the party in power, which
the Opposition have, with undoubted sincerity, re* «
garded ns hostile to the best inters*!* of the coun- .
try, and productive of the long train ot financial ca
lamitie*, the melancholy effect* <-f which we yet
; feel. Two convu s ve cff *i t* have been made w ith- |
out success to overthrow the dynasty, to which *o i
much mischief is ascnbed. The period for a third i
struggle approached. A desperate rally was made. ^
1 All the elements of ihe opposition were combined
| —the trumpet sounded—the onset was made—and j
a total rout of the Administration force is, at this j
, moment, the consequence.
Aparr from all pat i/.an considerations, the result :
,4 gi itifyieg || i town (, that notwithstanding a
i imm< n<e support, the Pretorian assistance, which
the Federal Executive may command through his
! official patronage, yet the will «>f the People will
make itself heard, and the verdict of the People
will ho summarily executed. No dynasty, from in
own inherent influence and power, can lung sustain
itself, where the unbought ami unbuyable suppoit
of the People is wanting.
The election of Harrison must inevitably produce
an entire breaking up of the old party landmark*
| and boundaries. The present patty catchwords,
■ which have been rung in oursarsrzd nauteam, must
he exploded. It is an absurdity of language, to j
i speak of any Democracy save the Democracy of
| Numbers. Democracy, unless our Greek Lexicon
; misinforms us, means a government where the peo
pie—that is, the majority of the people—govern.—
| Of course the H-rnson men are now the real dem~
| ocraln. They no longer, with propriety be cal -
| led British Wh;, We hardly think the most ul
j tra " Locofoco" v It so insult the country of hi*
I birth (or, most prohubly, of his adoption) as to as
sert that a majonty uf the people of the United
States have been bought up by British gold. We
can assure Messrs. Blair and Kemiail, that we know
hundreds of worthy men who huve not seen the color
of a brass farthing.
As to Gen. Harrison’* appointments and remo
i val* from office, we ure sure that lie will set an ex
ample worthy of his illustrious office—that he will
lake Mr. Jefferson's rule, “ is he honest, is lie ca
pable,” ami we expect to hear more complaints
from the disappointed applicants, in the ranks ot
j his own party, than from worthy and faithful of
fice holders, now in place. Those who have receiv
ed offices, as the reward of improper partisan ser
vice, or who h ive abused their official liu*t, must
expect to bo removed; hut beyond this we do not
expect him to go.—Alex Gaz
The Effect on Business.—The New V'oik Ex
press states that the now eslnh]i*hed fact that Gen.
Harrison is elected the next President of the Uni
ted States, is of course the main topic of conversa
tion in all business circles, and the result of it w ill
soon he developed upon the Commerce and Trade \
of the countiy. " The news is received with great j
| calmness, though with great congt alula lions. Wall ;
street has often exhibited ten times as much exhil- i
motion over petty triumphs of much smaller impor
tance. The excitement for election news is now I
rapidly >*ub»iding. The giand ie*ult being known,
particulars are sought for, but as matters ofeurios
| lty. Tfiis excitement, however, has been such as
we have never seen before. In many days we have
I been allowed neither sleep nor rest, and by even
day break, our office bus often been us crowded as
at midday.”
I he Prophet.— The lUchmond Whig says:—
The ** curious antique” of the Enquirer is trying to
divert public attention from his own ful*e prophe
cies, by exaggerating those of others. Never did
an old gentlomuu mis* the figure more wid. iy in
all hi* calculations than he ha*. Any man was u
fool who doubted New York’s voting for Van ! She
has voted aguinst him by TWELVE THOUSAND
I —A small mistake of some 30,000 ? Maryland wa*
certain; Georgia wus certain ; Maine would light
herself; Pennsylvania was dead aura by 10,000!—
Ohio, too, would in all probability vote for Van ;—
Corwin’s innjority wns no test; and so on as to some
! 12 or 14 States, which have gone w uh a rush for Old
j Tip. Hi. belie vers, who have made heavy beison j
1 the strength of hi* assurances, have to pay the pen
I ally. Their eye* may he opened by the operation.
His predictions are not less glaringly falsified in
l respect to the vote of Virginia, than in respect to I
; the other States of the Union. Throughout 9-1 O hs
of the State, all hi* estimates failed h in,—and but !
I for the. to him, unexpected vote of two or three
I counties, his 5619 majority had been converted into j
I a Whig majority.
(ikn .1 a ('Kaon —It must b« exceedingly gratify
ing to the General, to w itness the entire prostration
ol the pm ty and principles, which flourished in such I
|ntlnty pride during his Administration. He has !
lived to witness tho condemnation of Ins Charlatan
experiments, and the ruin of all the politicians who [
have sustained them. i he parly wliirti lie has so
bitterly denounced as Federalists and Aboliti its
have proved themselves a large tnajoi ity ot mu
People. Gen. Jackson claims to be a Democrat,
I and to bow with implicit deference to the popular
| sovereignty. We hope that he will learn to speak,
| therefore, with mote forbearance of I.og Cabins,
, Hard Cider and "such munitne ry," and to entertain
I » mote just estimate of the chaiacter and services
of General llariison, now that they have been so
signally honored by the Democracy of Numbers.—
-V J’. Courier Enquirer.
M e continue to hear of the Commissioners in sev* ;
j ertt' counties, assuming to themselves the power of !
purging the polls, after the election. D we under
stand the law on the subject, such a proceeding ‘s >
wholly unauthorised and illegal; umj we jnc|j,ie lo j
the opinion, that it dearly vitules the ele* lion, it
bad vote, were polled, as in Chesterfield and Isleot
Wight, with the understanding that they were to
he stricken from the polls alieiwa ' t,i, a 1
matter uf grave and serious inipiiry Fxecu
live; and although the vote of Vir’g: not af- I
hcl the grand result, it is not th |t«, ,tant on :
that account, that illegality in the conduct of the j
election, and usurpation on the elective fianchi-v, 1
should he corrected. Permitted to pass now units’ ;
buk. d, it may grow into precedent, and become a
■ tnutter of awful import at some imure day —Kith
IVhig.
From the Abingdon Virginian—Octebei '.’4.
OUR POST OFFIGK
Some few weeks ago, it was ascertained that mo- 1
ney had been abstracted from the mail on this line,
and probably at the Post Office m this place. Git- J
! ‘-''instances led to suspicion, falling upon one of our
most respectable citizens, Capt J„|in W. Steven-,
wlto had been an assistant in the office for several
years. Suspicion having rested upon Capt. Steven-,
a trap was fixed, by which, if guilty, |,e might lie
dele, led. The Postmaster, (Mr. Gibson,) j.living
discovered th u to robberies weie always commit
tsd during Ins absence, withdrew, having impaited
the secret to an assi.iam a young gentleman, it- j
gainst whose moral infgruy not a shade of impti- 1
talion eooltl he cast, and who had been soar a thou
sand miles from here when some of the depreda- I
tions were committed. So soon as the mail had ar- I
rived, the Assistant open. one of the hags, an I de
posed therein a package ol letter, prepaied for
the occasion, several ol w hi-I, contained money,
and closed the hag again. Soon after, Capt. Ste
vens rnms in and was left alone in the office, with
instruct,ops to distribute that hag of letter- whilst
the other assistants breakfasted. On return, g, the
Assistant before refeiredto, d s vered that the
lettetiI were missing, and gave the sheriff informa
tion of the tart. T he mumentthe ma.l w us clu d,
ti e Sheriff called Captain Stevens into his office,
searched him in the presence of two magistrates,
and found the letters in his coat pocket, with the
seals broken, and the money in them. He was ex
amine,! before a Magistrate, and upon the evidence
of witnesses as above repoited, and was sent on for j
trial to the I S. District Court at Wythe, which
sits in April.
LATEST FROM FLORIDA!
More Indian Murder e— Conference of tome of the
Seminole Chiefe with Gtn. Armietead—more
talk oj an end of the War.
On the 29th lift, from sixteen to twenty Indian*
made their appearance on Col. Hanson's plantation,
about two miles from St. Augustine. robbing the » e
groes of ail their blankets and winter clothing.—
Their intention was to f»re the building*, and mike
prixe of the negroes—but some of them havi»ges
csped, and making their way to town, were fallen
in with by one or two gentlemen who had bet n hunt
ing, and they pu« '’den with the intelligence. The
quick appearance of a lew p rsont from tow n, tend
ed to hasten them away with their plunder, and en
abled the negroes whom they had with them, to fall
back in the augur cane held, and thus escape them.
One Indian, w it hoci baggage watt tired upon, suppo
sed to be Wild Cat, as he left the enclosure without
any of the plundered property. Th^y 6red one ri
fie into the dwelling house, which nearly wounded
the overseer. Tbs property taken amounts to a
considerable sum. No other damage.
Lieut. Brown, 3d Artillery, was eery promptly
on the spot w ith eleven men. and remained during
the night on gnatd. Ami yt-sieidny morning pro
ceeded, in command of Lieut. Graham's detach
ment of Dragoons, and his own command, with
Lieut. Wesc*#it of the Infantry, in pursuit.
An unfortunate and truly melancholy occurrence
took filar* at Coi. Hanson's plantation at half past
2 o'clock on'! hursday morning. The sentinel hav
ing discovered in two places, persons approaching,
lettered to tin* hou-e, wi’hin which the small force
on »he plantation weie, and gave the alarm. Im
m liutrly Li»*ut. ILnwn, with hit men, proceeded
to reconnoitre, as well a* the lotir or live friends who
had -offered to remain on the place; and having
been on the watch for upward* of 30 minutes, thev
discovered persons moving quickly up; the Serjeant
fired, wounding Lieut. Graham, of the Dragoons,
in the arm, and killing Serjeant W olcott, of his
company.
Extract of a Letter, dated
PiLATKA, Oct. —Unofficial information reach- I
ed u* by last night** express, that eight warrior* had 1
been in at Tampa, anil stated that they would, in
n few days, biing in three hundred Indian* to hold
a great talk*’ with the General. We hope for the
best, hut past experience has taught u» to place lit
tio or ru confidence upon the word of a Serniuole.
An express from Picolata has ju*f arrived, with the
information that a party of the enemy made their
uppeat ance last night, near H unson’s, in the vicinity
of St. Augustine, and killed three men. Two or
three, scout * are now in pursuit.
The express rider, between Torts Fanning and
Macomb has been missing for some time. I have
jusl heard that he bus been found quartered, and
thrown into a pond ten miles from Fort Macomb.
Extract of a letter to the Editors of the Savannah
Republican, received fra man officer of the Flor
ida Army,
Pll.ATKA, Nov. 1st, 1840. 1
By last night’s express, 1 am enabled to give you
iho result of the conference of the Indian* with j
Gen. Armislead at Tampa Bay.
Ilulleck Tustemigga, Tigei Tail, and six others, j
came in at the appointed time, and among other
things, agreed to meet the General with 300 of
their people at Fort King, on the 7th in»t , lior the !
purpose of further uegociation* It is expected
that the two chiefs named, will proceed to Wash- j
ington and visit the President in propria persona, j
if they should deem it their inreiesi to come, in
good faith, it may end the war, a* th*'y probably j
have it in their power to dictate terms of peace ; ■
but 1 opine that if the war is ended only upon the
good faith of the Indians, it w ill last forever and a
day. They are like Kngland on tin boundary ques
tion : they will appoint commissioners and negoci- |
j ate until doomsday—und until doomsday hold on i
to the country.
(* * > I Worth, the gsllant commander of the “ Re
public's own,** with two companies, left here a few
days since, for Fort King, where he will meet the
balance (3 companies) of his regiment.
Erom the St. Augustine Sews.
St. At atsTiAK, Nov. 8.
Information has been received in this city fiom
Fort Keid, on the St. John’s, that Col. \V. S. Har
ney, 2d Dragoons, had captured twelve Indians,
1 consisting of women and children, last week, in that
neighbor hood. He took fi urn them about fifty blank
ets, some perfectly n*w, and a number of pieces of
calico, homespun, See. This plunder is no doubt
some that was taken when Indian Key was destroy
ed by the wretches. Wild Cat and ii:« party are
still in this neighborhood, and committing depreda
lions daily.
fort Htm»on, about fifteen miles from this city,
was burnt about three day* n"o. '1 he tioeps that
were garrisoning it ( volunteers) had not left it hut
a few hours, before it was burnt. There were eight
distinct track* discovered around the Fort by the
scout who discovered that the place was burnt.—
line of the track*was that of a negro, and that very
! JftlSe* I* i® the same party that are daily rnurder
: ing our people about here, headed by W ild Cat, ali
as Coa-coo-hee !
I ELECTORS OK PRESIDENT AND VICE
PRESIDENT.
Tho following extract from tho amendments of
' the (.'institution of the I nited Smto* shows the
mode of procedure in the ejection of Pi esident :
1 hr electors shall meet in 'heir respect ive states,
and v»rr by ballot for President and Vice President,
j one of whom at least shall not he an inhabitant of
the same Sta’e with themselves; they shall name
in theii ballots the person voted for ns President,
and in distinct L«s 1 l*»ty the person voted for us Vice.
1 iQflidc nt; and they shall make distinct lists of all
persons voted for ns President, and t r nil persons
voted lor ns Vice Piesident, and of the number of
votes fur each, which list they shall sign and certi
fy, and transmit sealed to the seat of the govern
| m«n* of the United State*. directed to the Pieddent
j of tho Senate ; the President of the SeiiHte shall,
I in the presence of the Senate and House of Repre
sentative*. open all the certificates, and the votes
sJiall thru be counted—the person having tho great
est number of votes for President shall be Presi
| dent, if such a number shall be a majority of the
j whole number of eleciors appointed ; and if no per- J
son have such majority, then from the persons hav- ,
ing the highest nut? her, ro t exceedir g three, on the
li«t of those voted for as Piesident, the House of i
Representatives shall clmnse immediately, by bal- 1
lot, the President. But in choosing the President,
the votes shall be taken by Slates, the representa
tion fiom each State having one vote; a quo rum
tor this purpose shall consist of a member or mem ■
hers from two-thuds of the States, and the majority
of all the States will be entitled to a choice. And if I
the House of Rrp i si ntativrsshi.il not rhn< •» a Pre- \
s dent when the ght of chot. >• shall devolve upon
them, then lb President shall net as Presi
dent, ns in the » vg»- : the death or other ccnstitu
'ionul disability of the President
I bo Ri; ’imond Whig proposes that tl * Whig
»*dit '18 of V irgiuia shall meet in Washington citv 1
on the fifth, of March next, foi the twofold purpose
ot concerting some measuies which shall place
their cm ps » pun more elevated ground than they \
now occupy, by ledeemiug the brotherhood from i
reproaches brought upon them by some who do not
more di*gra“e the profession than thsy do the *pe- |
ci- « to which they belong,—-and of pledging them- (
es to toe obsei vance and maintenance, w jt h rig
orous fidelity. of certain principles, believed to be
consecrated by experience the constitution, and the
tc # ot ihe prop! . Kor one, we say 'greed !
— f.j/wk. Virginian.
I it r Remains of a Hero— t is intended, on
the‘Jbth of the _ res* .t month, to remove the re
man.' of j. Mercer, of Virginia, who was mor
tally wounded at the battle of Princeton, from Christ
(>m-ch burial ground to Laurel Hill Cemetery.—
• ^removal ha* "-on undertaken by the St. An- J
dtew s Society, who, at considerable expense, have j
procured a monument to ha erected on the spot,
which can now be seen at the marble yard of John i
Strut hers. The ceremony will b* performed by a
civil and military proces ton, which will proceed to '
the K» v. Mr. Barnes’ ( tirch. where an Oration i
will be delivered by William B. Heed. Esq., from ,
whence the remains will be taken to Lft lei Hill, i
and interred with military honors.
1 his removal has been made necessary in conse
quence of the opening of a street through Christ
Church burial ground, and has beer: arranged with |
the entire consent of the relations of the deceased. 1
Philadelphia PcnntyUanian
Kescmptio* urSrKCiaPaiMEXTS—The Banks
sre preparing for resumption, and we shall rejoice
when the act is accomplished The war move
ments in Europe, the increased importations into j
this country, the acctuing interest on American ,
stocks in Europe, and the consequent demand for |
specie, may make the resumption more difficult
than was expected. Since June last, the exports
,,f specie to Europe have been about $2.000,000
and probably as much more will he wanted to j,,
the interest falling due abroad on American slocks
Still, w* hope the resumption will take place. Bu
sioess men. and all, should lei d their efforts to fa '
cilitate the process. Accordm, to the law of i'enn- |
sylvania, the United States and other Banks of that |
State most resume in January next or he di,ven into
liquidation. If the U. S Bank resumes, most of i
the hanks of tho Union will follow her example.— |
The insolvents will go down.—AJadttonion.
The KtsiMrTloH.—The Newt York Expre-s of j
Saturday, 2 o’clock, P. M.says:—‘‘The Boston
capitalists and hanks have been called on by the lo
. cai Bunks in the city of Philadelphia, for a loan of
I tw o alid a half millions of dollars, in Post Notes,
i having twelve and eighteen months to run ; and
i hearing an interest of 0 per cent. This loan they
l have accepted, end have invited the New York
Banks to participate in the loan, lo the extent of a |
| million of dollars. T!-e loan is to ba made in Phil- j
adelphia b unds, and the Post Notes to be made
payable in New York. The Batiks here have read- !
: ily agreed to take their part. The Bank of Com- j
metci' has taken m»ie. viz, $250 000—the Mer- i
! chants’ and Mechanics' $100,000 each,—the Phce
, nix, S'aie. and City all unite, so that the sum will
j ho made up without the slightest inconvenience, as
he New York Banks have full a million of dollars
I in balances Iv ing dead in Philadelphia, on which
they have not tor a long timo received any interest;
- «nd the Boston Banks have, no doubt, quite as large
, a sum lying dead. The arrangement is moat desi
| rable for all parlies.”
The National Intelligencer ex'the 12th inst. savs:
—The Legislature of Alabama convened at Tusca
loosa on the 2J inslunt. The Senate was organi
zed by the election of Mr. Cottrell as President,
and Pleasant Hill, L#q., Secretary, both Loco
focos, without opposition. In the House Samuel
W aLK kk. Locofoco, was elected Speaker, over Kli
sha Young. Whig. The vote mood for Walker 40,
for Youfjg 41. The Locofocos elected all their ofB
cem by the »ume majority. There were six Whig*
and two Loco# absent. When the House i# folk
patties stand 62 Loco# and 43 Whigs. Last year
tlieie were GG Locos and 34 Whigs.
Pike in Georgetown.—On Wednesday night
j the 11th instant, u fire broke out in the row of
build ing# near the river in the upper part of George
town, in which was an extensive Bakery, owned by
.Mr. Brown, ihe VY a rebouse occupied by the Alex
andria Canal Company, &c. &c. The combustible
mute ot the building# mused u rapid conllagiution,
o.d the houses were soon destroyed, with their con
1 tents. These buildings were, unfortunately, almost
in contact with the materials now preparing for the
superstiucfuie of the Potomac Aqueduct, and the
lire communicated to a quantity of valuable timber,
and tbe frame of u trust* well under way, which
were lying piled upon the whaif. Muchot this lim
ber, already Kyanized for use, two hundied barrels
of Ccement, ahd the worksheds, fell a prey to the
tlames- The principal sufferers are the Alexandria
Canal Company, but tho actual loss cannot yet be
stated with any accuracy—probably $7,000 or $3,
000 Mr. Brown’s Bake-House whs insured. The
lire i# supposed b\ some to have originated fiom the
| Bake-House, and by others, that it commenced in
the Warehouse next door —Alex. Gaz.
1 ho Npw OrlennH Picayune stateatl.at two rogue#
effected their escape from the Penitential)' ut Bat
on Rouge, in the following manner:
To prevent the effects of humidity, the cells in
the lower story have a counter arch of bricks under
the plank ioor. I heso convicts, with a very fine
saw, made nn opening in the floor, in the daikest
part id their cells, the joints of which would deceive
the most experienced eye, particularly ns they al
ways left a little sand on the floor, with the apparent
intention ofkeeping their cells clean. By tiiese open
ings, they could descend in the night. They com
menced Ity cutting through a brick wall, thieefeel
thick, which separated their cells ; then through a
wall communicating to another cell, in order to have
space to put the bricks and earth to he taken from
theit intended excavation. This excavation was
about fourteen feet in length, at a depth of f ur und
a halt feet. To make this subterraneous cavity,
they first pierced through a wall two feet thick,
then through the foundations of an outside wall, six
ami a half teet thick ; making the opening for their
exit in the grent coutt of the Penitentiary. They
thence descended into the garden by the roof of a
work shed. This labor must have required at least
six months, for the tools found in the excavation,
consisted of three small pieces of iton, two of w hirh
are old morticing chisels, three quarters of aa inch
| broad.
The Wheeling Gazette states, that the rogues
j who have been committing burglaries in that place
tor about a month past have ut length been taken
' up. 1 he first of the party detected w as a shoema
ker named Scott. In his house a considerable
quantity of tluien property was found, some of
which has since been,claimed. A complete appa
ratus for manufacturing counterfeit coin, and a
considerable quantity of the money were also dis
covered.
Passengers at New \ukk.— I lie number of
passengers winch arrived at this p ut from foreign
ports, from the 1st of January to the 1st of Novem
ber, 1841), a period of ten months, is, as we learn
horn the ilaibur CYmmitsiouers, fifivsoven thou
: sand nine hundred and ninety six.
The current of emigtalion has begun to set in
I from Januaty, and great nun.b u s have arrived this 1
year. 1 here at« no means of estimating the amount !
of money brought in by emigrants, from the differ- !
ent nations of Kurope ; but it is believed greatly to
exceed the amount of any former year, la thou- !
snnds of cases, the arinngrn cuts lor settlement in
selected places woie conducted before the parties
had begun to •• pull up slab, at their old homes,
j In nt h'ust one instance, a con lete community of
i individuals, including the spiritual pastor, and pet
i ,(,'t* >'f all trades, has come among us, and is now
quietly settled down upon the peaceful bunks of the
beautiful Ohio.
I lie number of passengers which has arrived at
this port coastwise, during the penod above men
tioned, viz. ten months, is ti 923, os wo learn fiom
the same source —.V. 1". Courier.
I .sinful OcrCRRENCK.—We understand tliut
I'rofessnr Davis ut the University of Va., was s> , >
by an unknown band, with n pis'ol, in front of his
dw lling, on Thursday night abm G o'clock. The
individi. I who committed the > is said to have
been maiked at the time. Tin I was received
just below the navel, and is sani to have passed a
riiirid the abdomen down to the flesliv part the
thigh, without entetitig th~ cavity. It affords he
numrrons friends ot Mr. Divis in this community,
infinite pleasure I > learn, that the wound is not con
sidered mortal. As the circumstances connected
with this disliessing occurrence will probably un
derg" judicial investigation, we forbear to speak
inme folly ol them for the present —CkarlolteivUU
Advocate
I ATAL Ac ii>’ m —As l)r, Dunbar was return- i
mg into town, from the north western suburbs, in
his cariinge on Saturday night, the 11th inst., about
I 1 o'clock, the horse, w icli was driven by a negro I
servant, suddenly started, snapped [ho shafts, and
immediately dash d oft, drugging the diiver out by
the reins, who foil with so much violence at to
f -e.ik hit collar bone, two or three ofhisiibt aid
dislocate his neck, from which injuries lie expired
in about an hour afterwards. The man was a faith
ful and valuable servant, and one whose lost will not
be easily supplied.—Balt. American.
Li driduk Ac<teiTT*n.^-Dr. Kldridge, whose j
trial has occupied the attnnlion of the Court of Cri
minal Sessions for tome days, w as acquitted on Sat*
urdav last, and the Jury determined that the costs '
should be pat ' by the county. The piincipal difli- |
cutty was, as we understand, a doubt as to the iden- I
tity. I we Doctor wus remanded, to await a trial !
upon another charge — Phila. Star.
1 hi- Mint of the United Slates is said to be en
gaged in coining a new dollar. It is of sn alter di
mensions thoi the Spanish dollar, and is altogether
bftioi Piccuted
ANOTHER DREADFUL ACCIDENT7
The New York Times and Star says; Tlw V
Buren high pressure steamboat Extra Globe ha*"
ingbeen tun into and disabled by the democratic vL
of battle ship, Ohio, followed by the frigates M,
land and New Jetsey, and a fleet from NtwL'1^
land, ha» been laid up in ordinary at the he*/of
Salt Ki.er. Captain Kendall can be found on boaM
the wreck, and all peisons iml-bted to him wq!
please “ step up to the office and sattie.” n!,1
sympathy for Captain Kendall's misfortune* j„j ’
ces us to insert fut him the following adverti—m-U"
free uf chat re.
Come, down w sih your dollars, ye Democrats tiue!
And those tsiiu can do it had bctlei send two
From those wtio are poor, a half dollar I’ll t„ke ■
’Twill serve a small sum for the pauper to make
So hand out your dollar, hand out your dollar '
Hand out your dollar, your duller, heigh hi !
The Buck-eye Blacksmith —The Cleva'awd
IF raid of a late date says:—Mr.-Bear has d '
the Harrison cause good setvice. He made 7"
first speech at the great Convention of Februs™
—<L since which time he has been constantly on t)
•tump—has visited several States—addressed a,
setnblies tanging fioni 100 to 40 000 persons—aBd
avei aged 10 speecbess pet month. He is . ^
of strong mind, quick pet,-option, retentive memo
ry, tl'ietit tongue and iron constitution. Having
f.ilhfully hammered for the country the past ,,a.
son, he now proposes to open his shop again ir. Old
Pickaway, and hammer away fur the support ut
himself and family. May his inJustry ha rtchl* Ie.
warded. *
Anti-Bank—The Michigan State Bank failed
some time since, amk*>he Van Buren men expressed I
their holy horror at the stupendous Whig Bank '
fraud. The effects of the Bank have been taken
into Chancery, and it now appears thut Gov. Ma.
son, his father, the U. S Senators, Marshal. Alter"
ney, Sir. the pure Van Buren Democracy of Mich;,
gari owe the Bank two hundred and twenty thou
sand, seven hundred and fifty eight dollars'!_
l’relly fair, this.
The North Eastern Boundary Question —
The New York American announces a forthcoming
work, from the pen of Mr. Gallatin, entitled—
“ The Right of the United States to the JV#rti
Eastern Boundary claimed by them."—The Amei
| ican states that it notices respectively the Report
j of Messrs. Fkathkrstonhacgh and Mudoe, and
| the article of Mr. Buller in the Westminster Re
j '«* i which are illustrated by eight maps, the most
: important of those referred to in the discussions of
; the question at issue.
Texas.—The expense for supporting the Texan
Navy, with its present number of vessels, is estima
ted at $57 1 879 50 There are eleven papers pub
lished in Texas, and nil, with the exception of the
Austin City Gazette, are warmly advocating the
necessity of immediately sending the Navy to set,
with lighting orders. They hold that nothing hut
decisive and direct bellicose operations will bring
Mexico to acknowledge the independence of the
young Republic.—I’hil. Gaz.
The election in the 13th Congressional district of
i eonsylvnnia, to till the vacancy occasioned by the
death of the Hon. VV. S. Ramsay, will take place
on the 20th instant. Col. Charles McClure has
been nominated as the Van Buren candidate. The
Whigs, we learn fiom the Harrisburg Intelligencer
have determined tu make no nomination.—Balti
more American.
The Abolition Ticket.—The Philadelphia In
quirer thinks it probable that 500 votes w ere polled
in Pennsylvania, on theSOih, tor the Abolition tick
et. In Philadelphia City and County that ticket
'received 107, in Dauphin 37, Cumbei lard 3, Ad
ams !. Lancaster 3, Chester 25, Brndfoid 60, Bea
I ver 20, and Su quehanna 31.
The Chat lesion Mercury, a stiff Van Buren pa
per, in noticing the Georgia elerlion says : " When
I one gets fairly under way dow nhill, increase of ve
j lociiy is very natural.”
1 he Pniludtdphla Inquirer has an eslima'e that
as large un amount us $500,000 was lost in that ci
| ty and New York, by the reprehensible practice cf
| betting on elections.
Illumination.
At a moe’gng of u nurnbei of citizens of the town
of Martinsburg, at the Court-House on Monday
evening, the 16th of November—THOMAS TAT
TON, appointed Chairman, and S. Garard, Sec*
rotary —upon motion of Col. E. P. Hunter,
Resolved, That the Pole and Arch be illuminat
ed on Wednesday evening, the 23th inst., and that
the W hig citizens genet ally be respectfully invited
to illuminate their house* on that evening, io com
memoration of the signal triumph gained by the
suppotters of free principle* over the combination
of office-holders and foieign mercenaries.
Resolved, That Adam Stewart, James S, Brows,
Benjamin II. Boyd, William A. Sommenrille, As*
thony S Chambers, Calender B. Wtbly, Jacob Van
Horen, jr., Hugh L. McGaughy, Jnines H. Sts
I phans, and William E. Wilcox, be a Committee to
i have the Pole and Arch illuminated, and of general
i superintendence.
Resolved, That these proceeding* be published
| in the Maitinsburg Gazette.
Resolved, That the meeting do now adjourn.
tugs. Patton, cav
S. Garard, Sec'y.
IT The illumination will commence and close at
the ringing of the Court-House bell.
S. GARARD. Sec'y.
The Committee of Arrangements appointed at •
meeting of the Whigs, convened on Monday err
ning last, to take into consideration the propriety of
Illuminati no the Town in commcraoratiou of
our late triumphs, met on the evening of the 17th
nt Oden’s Hotel, and after consultation, adopted the
following Resolutions : ^
Resolved, That it be recommended to the cili*
zens to form in procession, under the direction,of *
chief Marshal and Assistants, and with t ran* pares •
cie* and torches, and appropriate banuers, to parade
the principal streets of the town.
Resolved, 'i hat Col. K P. Ifu :ter be requeited
'o act as Chief Marshal, and that John Jamison.
I. Hoak, W illium Snodgrass, Jas Brown,TiUotioo
Pryatt, Daniel Burkhart, Jacob Van Doren, P H
tookua, Adam Senaker arid Washington
appointed Assistant Marshals.
Resolved, That the citizens of the county be*o*
vited to atteir1 id join in procession. !
Repolved, That the Shepherdstown Harmonc
Rand and the Lafayette Hand f>e respectfully »**'
filed to be present on the occasion
Ot>It is recommended by tbo committee, thst
the citizens have their lights prepared b) 6 o'clock,
so that, at the ringing of the Courthouse Bell. tn«"
Illumination may he instantaneous and general- 1
is also requested that when the bell rings a see™'1
time (10 o’clock) the lights will be extinguished
After which the committee adjourned. _
U1ARRISD.
On the 5lh instant, by the Rev. Charles Marlin,
I Mi. Jacob Sitaffkr to Miss Elizabeth S*0"' :
REAL, ell of this tow n. M ‘
On Thursday last, by the Rev. C. Starizm«n Mr
Benjamin K. IIoli.man to Mi*« Mart Caroline j
► ostkh, all ot Williamsport, Mil.
JLirIfaioiub Hotter.
KpifCopal services will bo held in iho Luih>’r®n
Chinch on Sunday next, at 11 o’olock.
iatiyerttsrnfl Hlcmorauici*
Sale, to-day, ui the residence oT the »ub*ct *bf i•
about 5 miles from Martinsbutg, of valuable L*n •
ad blooded Horses, draught Horses, Cows, H0|
&o., by Jacob Van Metre, Sr. ..
Sale, to-morrow, at Evan*’ lavern, ol va ua
Negroes, by Jacob Van Doren, Adm r
Sale, on Saturday next, at Spring Mill, ot
somtl Properly, by Danl. p. Burn*, D. S. .
Sale, on the sam*1 day, at Ransou s Mill, o
so*, Calls, Gears, Hogs, &«•, by Morris SlallP' 1