do it with all yonr heart. When you
are forced to blame, do it with reluct
ance. If you would preserve beauty,
rise early, [f you would preserve es
teem,be gentle. If you would obtain pow
er,be condescending. Ifyou would live
happy, endeavour to promote the hap
piness of others.
From the “Curiosities of Literature”
‘nr. PROGRESS OF OLD ACE IN NEW STUDIES.
Of the pleasures derivable from the
cultivation of the art?, science?, and lit
erature, time will not abate the growing
passion, for old men still cherish an af
fecuon and feel a youthful enthusiasm
m those pursuits, when all others have
ceased to interest. De. Reid, to his last
day, retained a most active curiosity in
tus various studies, and particularly in
the revolutions of modern chemistry.
In advanced lite we may resume our
former studies with a new pleasure, and
in old age we may enjoy them with the
same relish.with which more youthful
students commence. Professor Dugald
, Stewart tells us. that Adam Smith ob
served to him, that “of aii the amuse
ments oi old age, the most greatful and
soothing is a renewal of acquaintance
with the favourite studies and favourite
authors ot youth—a remark, which, in
Jus own case, seemed to be more par
ticularly exemplified while he was re
perusmg, with the enthusiasm of a stu
dent, the tragic poets of ancient Greece.
1 heard him repeat the observation
mere than once, while Sophocles and
Euripides lay open <m his table.”
Socrates learned to play on musical
instruments in his old age; Cato, at
eighty, thought proper to learn Greek ;
aud Plutarch, almost as late in life,
Latin.
1 heophrastus began his admirable
work on the Characters of Men, at the
extreme age of ninety. He only ter
minated his literary labors by his death.
The great Arnauld retained the vig
our oi Lis genius, and the command of
his pen, to his iast day ; and at the age
of eighty-two was stiil the great Arn
auid.
Sir Henry Spelman neglected the
Sciences in Lis youth, but cultivated
them at titty years of age, and produced
good iruit. His early years were chief
ly f*ssed in farming, which greatlv di
verted him from bis studies; but a re
mar aabie disappointment respecting a
contested estate, disgusted him with
these rustic occupations : resolved to at
tact. nmself to regular studies, and lit
er;.! ■ ?ct ~he sold his farms, and be
c most learned antiquary and
lav j T,
t ■ ert, the famous French minister,
almost at sixty, returned to his Latin
and law studies.
Tellier, the Chancellor of France,
learned logic, merely for an amuse
ment, to dispute with his grandchildren.
Dr. Johnson applied himself to the I
Dutca Language but a few years before
his death The Marquis de Saint Au
laire, at the age of seventy, began to
court the muses, and they crowned him
with their freshest flowers. The ver-'
ses of this French Anacreon are full of
tire, delicacy, and sweetness.
Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales were
the composition of his latest years; they
were begun in bis fifty fourth year, and
finished iu his sixty-first.
Ludovico Moualdesco, at the extra-1
ordinary age of 1)5, wrote the memoirs
of his times. A singular exertion, no j
ticed by Voltaire, who, himself, is cue
of th* most remarkable msL nces of the
progress oi age in new studies.
Lb® most delightful of auto-biogra
paies foi artists, is that ot Benvenuto
Ceb.ui; a work of great originality,
wiucu was not begun till “ the clock of
ins age had struck fifty-eight.”
Kooruhert began .it forty to learn the
Latai a >d Greek languages, of which he
became a master; several students, who
afterwards distinguished themselves,
Ewe commenced as late in life their lit
erary pursuits. Ogiiby, the translator
of Homer and Virgil, knew little of
Latin or Greek till he was past fifty;
and Franklin’s philosophical pursuits be
gan when he had nearly reached his
iiitieth year.
’s complete works form the
lai icst yof poetry from the pen of
« i* m the English language, yet
he . ve no public testimony ofpoetical
at. Mies till his twenty-seventh year.
In sixty-eighth tie proposed to trans
late the whole Iliad, and his most pleas
ing productions were written in his old
age.
Michael Angelo preserved his cre
ative genius even in his extreme old
ag? ; there is a device said to be inven
ted by him, of an old man represented
in a go-cart, with an hour-glass upon it;
the inscription Ancora imparo! Yet 1
AM LEARNING ;
FROM THE N. V. EVENING POST.
General Bolivar. —Simon Boiivar was
born at Caraccas in Ihe year 1787, of a
rich and most respectable parentage.
He received the rudiments of his edu
cation in Spain, and finished his studies
in France- Ue is said to be a man of
extensive erudition, unusually forcible
and el pient in debate, but particulaily
distins oished for the beauty and purity
of his wri ten style. His speeches, de
livered in the Congress, and at the head
of his troops, on various occasions, it is
believed, would be considered by us, if
faithfully translated, as equal if not su
perior, to any similar productions of
modern times. When his country de
termined to be free, he was among the
first to unsheath the sword in her de-
fence. He entered her army as colo
nel, but youthful as he was, he rapidly
rose by the influence of his superior pow
ers and patriotism, to the responsible &
elevated station of Commander-in-chief.
After the defeat of Miranda by Monte
verde in 1812, Bolivar was sent with an
army by the confederation of Granada
having achieved several splendid vic
tories, emancipated his native pro
vince of Venezuela. The war continued
with various success, until March, 1817,
when Bolivar again defeated the royal
ists with immense loss. He was now in
vested by the Congress with ample pow
ers, the situation of the Republic, from
the number of internal enemies, requir
ing the energy of a Dictator. However,
on the 17th of December, 1819, an
union beteen the Republics of Granada
and Venezuela was solemnly decreed ;
and this confedetation receiyed the ti
tle of the Republic of Colombia, w hich
I has since been independent, although
until recently compelled to make some
struggles for the preservation of her
liberties.
’leanwhile the liberator was actively
engaged in bringing the war to a close.
Finally on the 24th Jane, 1821, he led
his brave soldiers to a signal, illustrious,
and decisive victory, on the memorable
plains of Carahobo, w here the army of
the Royalists was totally defeated, with
the less of all their artillery, baggage,&
upwards of 6000 men. Perhaps after
all, the most signal successes of Bolivar
were those rapidly succeeding , and il
lustiious victories of Bonsa. Sagamoso,
Vargas and Boyaca, when having de
luded the emeny as to his position and
movements, he left the banks of the
Orinoco, ascended the heights ofCandi
mana, broke through forests and scaled
mountains never trod by man before,
and with an arfny of 1400 soldiers ex
i haunted and reduced by the most acute
sufferings, during a journey of 600
miles, thrice defeated 8000 strong and
healthy Spaniards. Here were pecu
liarly displayed the resources of bis ex
alted genius. A popular representa
i tive government established, Colombia,
so fruitful in resources, so delightful in
its general climate, so admirably locat
:ed for the successful prosecution of
i foreign and internal commerce, and ex
tending from the Atlantic to the Pacific
ocean, on the one side, and from the
stream? of Orinoco to ihe rich and beau
tiful meadows oi Guayaqil, on the other,
knows and cheerfully recognises her
indebtedness to Simon Bolivar. Twice
bus be been elected her President, havj
ing been previously to the coofedera-'
tiou, as often chosen to the same office,
by the Congress of his native province.'
The millions, over whose destinies he
now presides, occupy Venezuela, Span-i
ish Guyana, Veragua, Panama, Cuudu
amarca, and the extensive and richi
province of Quito, with all its hidden
j treasures, which, since Colombia is free
and undisturbed, the earth will be made
to surrender; tor it is presumable, that
the mines so long neglected by reason
ot political convulsions, will now he re
opened with persevering industry.
President Bulivar, according to our
latest accounts of him> was in Peru,
whither he went by request ofthe Con
gress of Colombia, to suppress faction,
to arrest treason, and to consolidate the
interests of liberty. Cheering indeed
is it to every friend of freedom and of
man, to learn, that hitherto he has been
eminently successful. Aguera, once the
iuol of the people, has been detected in
base schemes, and is now with his sat
teilites in prison. Bolivar, at the head
of a large aud well disciplined force,
has been invested with the supreme
civil and military command, that he may
speedily ‘terminate ihe war, which,
without a peradventure, he will accom
plish with equal glory to himself, and
safety to the rights of man. He has
again and again refused the honors con
ferred upon him, stating, that it was a
dangerous precedent for one man to pos
sess so much power, and to be so fre
quently re-elected. But his country
men, knowing their need of him, and
conscious of his unsullied integrity, per
sist in his elevation. He is the Wash
ington of South America.
brom the Constitutional IFhig
retribution.
Gentlemen—One ot the most steady
and zealous opponents ofMr. Jefferson’s
admirable system of Gun boat defence,
has been visited lately with a signal
retribution. Gun boat, No.—with a car
go of forty hogsheads of Roanoke To
bacco, the property of John Randolph,
Esq. ot that Ilk, lately sunk in James
River, and ducked the same over head
and ears, to the damage of twenty per
cent. As the boat went down without
any known cause, many superstitious
people think it a judgment on Roanoke
for his 'unreasonable and intemperate
opposition to that celebrated and darling
system of Mr. Jefferson.
.Mr. Randolph paid the warehouse a
visit in consequence of his. misfortune.
He told the buyers that “ they must
make haste and give him a good price
for bis tobacco—he knew they were all
opposed to the Tariff', and he was anx
ious to return to Washington, to vote
against it.” “He always had a presen
timent, he said, that he was to come to
some evil by Gun boats.” Mr. Randolph
was very solicitous to know, when the
assessment of damage upon each hogs
head was stated, where his damages
were to come from? Mv motive in
tins communication is, so enquire of an
Editor, who ought to know cverv thin
if an action on the case will not lie a-
gainst Mr.- Jefferson, for damages, as
the introducer of Gun bojts, and remote
cause of Mr. Randolph’s misfortune ?
S.
Vegetable Milk.— In addition to the
vegetable bread, vegetable butter, and
cabbage tree,'’which have been brought
to light by recent travellers, we now
learn by the Gazette de Santa of the 25th
July last, that M. de Humboldt has dis
covered in that region a tree which
abundantly affords a milky juice, similar
in its properties to the milk of animals,
and employed for the same purposes.
This liquid, which was drank by Hum
boldt, is stated to he derived from thepa
lode teche,or de tree which grows,
abundantly in the mounfaios above Peri
quito to the north-east of Maratay, a
village to the west of Caraccas. The
milk possesses the same physical qual
ities as that of ihe cow, with this .only
difference, that it is a little viscous: it
has the same taste also as cow’s milk.
Ev. Post.
— I —
“Wild Geese.—When wild geese
are tamed, they will join with a flott of
domestic geese, but al the usual lime of
migration, are very apt to join nny
flock which approaches near them in
their passage.”— lUUium's Hist. lip.
136.
A number of years since, a firmer in
Massachusetts shot at a flock of nild
geese that was passing over to the
south, and broke the wing of one of
them. He kepi and domesticated the
goose, until it was appan ally as tame
as any one from our common flocks.
The cnsuingspiing lie neglected to clip
her wings, and she flew away in a flock
that was passing to the north, and he
conceived her lost. The next autumn,
however, when a very large flock was
returning to the south, eleven detach
ed themselves and alighted in the farm
er s yard. They proved to be one old
and ten young ones. The old was tLe
same that left him in the spring.
Hartford Mercury.
Republicanism.— 1 his is a queer word,
! and we hardly know w hat to make of if.
We once thought that the whig? ofseven
ty six were Republicans; that the Fram
ers of the Consiitnlion were Republi
cans; that Washington and I lamiltim.
! John Adams, Oliver Ellsworth, Roger
: Sherman, and indeed most of the He
■ roes and Statesmen cf the Revolulion
! were Republicans; andon ihe adoption
lof the Federal Constitution, Federal
| Republicans. We even thought that
! George Cabot, the President of (he
। Hartle.d Ccnvenlion, an J Caleb Strong,
■ the Governor ofthe Commonwealth of
j Massachusetts, were stern republicans.
! But this name is not only assumid, hut
I claimed as exclusive property by a class
jof men of a very different character.
: Napolean Bonaparte called himself a
Republican, though Oliver Cromwell
spoiled that jeke by cracking it before
him. Shayes, no doubt, was ambitious
oi the title, as well as Gen. Shepard ;
though they must have differed as (o
the meaning of the word ; and many a
naturalized foreigner has called the <e
publican Whigs of seventy six, Tories
and Aristocrats, when he found them in
ihe Federal ranks. That there are
very many genuine, honest Republicans
in the democratic parly, we admit, ami
it is believed, all will admit. They,
however, are not the men who call
those who may differ from them ns to
the best means of promoting the good
of our country, Tories. It is your new
fledged Democrats (hat try (m ic wing
upon this blast; your young man of
21 that abuses the grey head and pat
riotic heart, and signs himself “’76 ;”
and this is our view ofthe abuse of the
word Republican. Conn. Mirror.
—s — __
FROM THE BOSTON CENTINEL.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE CENTINEL.
SIR—
The proposition now to be consider
ed is this: 'lhat admitting the Resolve
instituting the Convention to be constitu
tional in terms, it was the intention of its
framers under cover for pretext) of it to
attempt somm object adi erse to the Consti
tution or laws of the Union.
From a charge entirely gratuitous so
broad as to defy mensuration by any
scale or compass of methodical argu
ment, it is plain that there is no appeal
but to common sense and experience on
the internal evidence of its folly and
falsehood. This evidence m the pres
ent instance resulting from indisputable
facts, ami from the organization and
modes of procedure of the Legislative
assemblies in the United States, must ap
pear not only satisfactory, but over
whelming. It is implied in the words
of the pi oposilion, and is universally a
greed, that the plan of opposition, wrut
ever were its outlines, was to receive
its form and pressure in the Conven
tion.—The combination whicl; originat
ed the authority was the Legislature I
but the “authorized combination” was
the assembly at Hartford. Neither one
or ihe other was possessed ofthe means
of doing any thing—of any physical force
applicable so purposes of opposition to
Government. —Every act of the Legis
lature/or that end, would have exposed
its abettors to the penalties of treason.
And the Convention had not only no
power to command even the services
ot a constable, but were indebted to the
courtesy of Connecticut, for house room,
fire, and candles. Whether the plot
therefore is supposed to huvp been in
vented in the Legislature of Massachu-
setts for the sanction ofthe Convention,
or in the Convention for ratification by
the States, it is clear that nothing more
could be expected, than a recommenda
tion of measures by ihe Convention,
which being adopted by the Legislatures
should hy them have been recommended
to the people. 1 pause not to consider
whether the charge of “combination”
in an odious sense, as applied to any
project, which must be submitted to the
people, (in whom reside the right to
change their government) be not de
structive ot itself; because I wish never
to an'icipate in imagination circumstan
ces that would justify mon of principle
in counselling their fellow citizens t<>
shake off creven weaken the bonds of
our Union, and because further, 1 would
disdain te lake shelter iq. the dark maz
es of (hat theory. On the contrary,!
admit that If iLe framers ofthe Ccnven
tion or its members, permilled them
selves in the hour of their country’s ex
tieme peril, even to brood over schemes
of disunion, whether to be executed by
•hemselves or olhers, their impotency
of means would furnish no palliation for
the political depravity oftheir hearts.
Still it is material, in forming our es
timate of clandestine intentions, to bear
in mind, that all w'hichthe Legislatures
tu’-i Convention together could do, must
have in rccommendatic-ns and
reports : — Fer in judging of a man’s dis
|j<:sition to commit a crime, whch he
had ihe power to do, bul from which he
may have been deterred by circumstaces
it is often sufficient to be acquainted
with his character.— Butin forming an
opinion ofthe likelihood of his intentions
to give had and desperate counsels to
others, we look not merely to his char
actep, but to (hat ot the party for whom
ladvice is supposed to have been in
tended. Ao sower will be presumed
to destine his seed for a soil in which he ,
knoti’s it cannot vegetate,—and tho
waste oi bad advice is for (bat reason
probably less than that of goo !. When
therefore, the federal members of the
Legislature of Massachusetts, or such of
them :;s were behind the curtain, in
tended in the first instance to convey
(by no matier what occult act) (o tim
convention (a case almost too absurd
to be stated as a possibility) their pro
ject of disorganization, what was the
enjnee o! a favourable bearing ? When
the members of the Convention or
any oi them in their turn entertained
Ibe design oi recommending “treason,
stratagems, or plots” for adoption by
the several Le gislatures, and finally by
the people, w f.nl was their prospect oi
success I These questions must have
occurred, and were not very dflicnlt to
be resolved.—The people had spoken
loudly, and their representatives were
perfectly apprised, how tar they would
go in oj pcsiticn.—They were either
: ripe for proceedingto extremes, or they
were not. If they were not thus ready
(heir representatives knew it; and un-
It-ss qualified for the insane hospital,
they could never intend, under cover’
of any authority, to propose measures
which must ultimately come before the
people, and which being rejected, would
redound to the confusion and disgrace of
’heir authors. I: on ihe other hand,
the people were thus prepared—
the Convention, who instead of tak
ing advantage of excilemeut,
aimed by their report to soothe their ir
ritation and stimulate iludr patriotism ;
to reconcile them to a more enduring pa
tience, and cheer them with a more en
livening hope : ;u also the Legislatures
ofthe different States who accepted'
that rr port— deserved u dl, not ill rs their'
countnt.
But to proceed Io facts.—The number
i of f’cdcr.ihsis (or of persons composing
■the majority, for there was among them
a few of (he “flying squad,”) in both
Houses,in the session o. *Bl4, when the
Convention was formed, maj* be taken
at an average of three hundred ; vary
ing but not materially from time to time.
'lhe Members of the Convention were
elected from the. people al large from
the different sections ofthe country in
Massachusetts and Maine, (wo only be
iag Members of'he Legislature.
At the time of passing the Resolve
and appointing the members ofthe con
vention, it was uncertain and impossible
to be known whether any other State
would concur in the measure. Applica
tion was publicly made (o each ofthe
A’. England Stales, after the passing of
the resolve, and not before, through the
same organ—its Executive. Those of
New-Hampshire aud Vermort did not
convene (heir respective Legislatures in
season to come into the plan of a Con
vention. Now (he readiest mode of as
certaining whether it was practicable
for the majority of a legislative body
(organized and doing business with open
doors according ,o (he forms of o , ir
State Constitution) to enact a combina
tion, of the kind, and for the purposes
imagined, and under the circumstances
just hinted, will be for any person ac
quainted with legislative proceedings,
to bling bis own mind a clear and
sathfadory conception of any mode of
effecting it.—lt must 1 think," baffle the
attempt of the most vigorous fancy,
however versed in the beau idol of plot
making. He will first determine wheth
er the entire majority shall be presum
ed privy to the project, or only (he few
leading and knowing ones. To be»in
with the first.—A secret, (for secrecy
is implied in (he proposition, and was
indispensable) must have been impart
ed to three hundred persons, “me re or
less,” and by the by, must have been kept
by them to this hour. Ami w hat was the
nature of the secret ? Why, only that
I this confidential party should by a sol
i emn act, confer an authority upon cer
| tain agents in express words ; with a se
; erct understanding that the authority
। should be violated, and that their com
missions should be executed in a mau-
I ner diametrically opposite to (he terms of
the prescribed power. These legisla
tors must have understood and intended
that instructions to devise means for the
defence ofthe country should be pervert
ed to inventions for betraying it'; that
instead of taking counsel logether for
the preservation of (he Union according
to the letter of ihe resolve, (hey should
convene with a latent purpose of labour
ing for its dissolution. —Thus their Com
missioners appointed for (he ostensible
object of united defence, would become
Commissoners of a seperafe peace “in
disguise,”—and their fail Illness to
their employers would be manifested
only by their to (heir contry.
It would Seem to require a drill, of un
precedented industry and securily to
bring this “host” under the discipline of
a corps of Illuminati, in the very few
days which elapsed between (he
nig oi the session and the day on which
the Convention project was adopted.
To reconcile this body o f substantial
Christian Yeomanry to hold (hen- ()a th
of office in contemp't ; —To habituate
them all to keep (heir tongues as with
a bridle, except only when they spoke
to deny (he truth and to repel suspi
cion ;—To listen without horror to the
unblushing denials, and to witness the
afccted vehemence and indignation of
mhers in spurning the imputations of
t.ieir opponents ; —Much address would
also be i equisite to initiate the new com
ers from file country, and to prevent
those who had leave oi absence fyem
telling tales. And there would seem to
Le need not only of address but of necro
. mancy, to be sure that (he choice of A
gents by balloting from all quarters,
, would till upon persons who should be
prepared to dsiobey their instructions
and to execute the unknown and incom
municable intention ot their employers.
Ail these difficulties would he multi
plied and reiterated in the legislative
bodies of such other States as should a
giee (o send deputies io the Convention.
Ihe Governors oi those States could
not collect from the circular letter of
our Governor the real intent of the
Convention.—is it then credible that
, Governor Strong would have ventured
to hold with the other Governors, one
language "official and another confiden
tial, by letter, wiihoul knowing Lis men.
Or are they also to be considered ns
conspirators, ab initio ? If yea, when,
where, and by what means was the un
derstanding among (hem originated ? If
nay, how were they qualified to give to
(heir several Legislatures,the proper im
pulses ? Recollect, that to make sure
work, ail these preliminaries must have
been adjusted within a very few days ;
all before the appoiniineot of (he dele
gates from Massachusetts and Maine.
। t he Electors in ihe Legislature of Mas
sachusells must also have either known
their men or have been willing to com
mil themselves aud their machinations
to the discretion of strangers. There
must have been an intelligence between
them,otherwise the delegates could not
discern by the resolve or (heir creden
tials what was expected of them. And
this mysterious intelligence between
(he Electors and the elected—between
the different Governors—between those
Governors and their Legislatures—and
between those Legislatures severally
’ and (heir delegates ; must (for any thing
, (hat has hitherto appeared, or which
' can be conceived possible ; ) have been
carried on by the “Prince o‘ (he power
ot the Air, and he must have made good j
speed with his despatches.
But these are not the only obstacles
which must have existed in (he way of
“ihe combination.” The Legislative
I'action umess besotted would look to
the issue. W hatever it was intended the
Convention should do, could have been
only recommendatory, and in tile form of
a report. —Suppose matters brought to
this point—tlie Convention agreed—
and all the glowing ingredients of fac
tion thrown into that caldron, 'to be
melted and cast into a brazen image ol
sedition, and brought home and placed
before our General Conit. In what
mode was ii to be disposed of ? How
were they to set about (he work of a
disioption ot the States, or a separate
peace, or a Northern Confederacy ?
The report would be tfiade to the whole
Legislature, foes as well as fii. nds.
Now’ then, if not before, the plot must
i>e discovered,previous to consummation
and nothing gamed by concealment L f ius
far* Ibe Legislature would be near
the ordinary termination ol’ its Winter
session,and not far from the end of i(s
political exislenco. To adjust any pro
posed siihstiiiiic for the National Gov
ernment would require some little time
even for the wisest Salesmen. The
Union could not be dissolved by ‘-Presto
begone !” nor a northern constellation
created by “let there be light.” It
would have Loen madness indeed to
scuttle the ship andquillhe wreck, with
out getting ready a boat or a raft.
After a report of (he Convention in
fin oi ol a revolution, the opposilion
could not advance an inch, without Le
gislative aid—and every act of legisla
tion in furtherance ofi( would be a'pub
lic act of usurpation. It is therefore in
evitable that the makers of (he Conven
tion—the sober, solid, cautious, and un
aspiring yeomanry" of Massachusetts
must have prepared to convert (Item
selves into a-‘Rump Parliament,” and
to arrange a new order of things with-
out any constitutional power, after <Le
plan of disunion should be promulgated
upon the faith that the Legislatures of
other States, not (hen in session, or the
people of (hose States, would uphold
'heir project.—Otherwise they must
have gone home to their constituents
leaving behind the abortion and taking
with them the disgrace.
To those gross outrages upon proba
bility and reason inseparable from the
affirmative of (he proposition at (he
head of (his letter, I add another. Ev
ery plan of opposition Io the Constitu
tion or laws must have consisted of ma
particulars. It was to embrace
States and to expose persons that the
plan, with its necessary details and ramifi
emww was digested by (he Legislature
into form, to be presented to the Con
vention, is a notion too extravagant to
have been yet hinted by (he most pre
judiced enthusiast. It was then to be
fashioned in (he convention. A case is
thus presented of intelligent men giving
authority to others, to make a plot in
their behalf. A plot perhaps pregnant
with tremendous consequences to their
country and themselves. Nor was it
possible to ascertain beforehand to whom
this (rust aud confidence of foilune, life,
and character was (o be confided. The’
Convenlicler? were to be elected bv
ballot, some from other States. And in
the election e/i/ twc l a! ,t Massachusetts
could have no agency. In reference
therefore to Massachusetts, (he plot was
to be made not even by immediate
proxy—but by agents, strangers them
selves and chosen by persons also stran
gers. Be it (hen agreed, that great
and wise, and even good men, have
sometimes conspired to effect revolu
tions. They nevertheless manufacture
their own plots, or know their accom
plices and what is intended to be done.
—They do not put out treason and con
spiracy io be made lor them by the job!
—Bui such was the predisposition of a
majority of both branches of our Legis
lature to sedition, that they must have
been reckless of what form it might as
sume, or cf the hands that were to
mould it.—The power of ratification
was indeed reserved to (he Legislature;
but individuals, after giving the power,
must have incurred the risk of such
latifn a,ion in spile ot their own opposi
tion—“ce n'est que le premier pas qui
coute. ■ I ask with confidence if the
history of man can produce a parallel
ism to such a case ? Did ever a set of
men give a “carte blanche” tc involve
themselves in the entanglement of ihe
pains and penalties, and casuali'ies of a
criminal conspiracy, without Knowing
by whom such authority would be fili
ed out and executed ! ! !
I here is indeed something so unnat
ural and revolting to common sense, an
tecedently to all reasoning upon the
subject, in the idea ot comprehending
the majority ofthe Legislature in any
secret conspiracy, that ihe most preju
diced persons pressed by these sugges
tions are compelled to abandon it, and
fasten (he imputation upon the “know
ing ones,” "the leaders,” “the Boston
stamp, 4’C. —But this will rather aggra
vate than lighten the mass of the objec
tions lor although it would be easier
in the first instance for a few to agree
upon a scheme, and to keep (heir own
counsels, than for many—yet the objec
tion arising from the danger of discovery
applies in a great degree to every Sup
posable number of confederates in a
plan of thisnaure; and all the other ob
jections apply in the same degree to the
supposition now assumed with the •addi
uon ot <ne that would seem to be in
suj eiable. Ihe cabal ot leading men
must have taken upon themselves not
inly to deceive their antagonists in the
:.t g ■mature, but the bulk, oj their own par-
J hey could have calculated upon
no certain support even from friends
after the mask should be lifted, hut
must have incurred the hazard that
when the report of the Convention
should he made, and their paity thus,
for the first time, apprized of (heir treas
onable intrigue, (besides encountering
all the other impediments) (bey would
be disavowed and deserted, and left in
“ a hole by themselves.’’
Bul there is no end to (he tissue ol
idle conjectures which can be woven bv
at dent imaginations. And yet one sen
tence should suffice to dissipate them
all. No act of dis-union is feasible by a.
State Legislature without a previous au
thorization by the people. Suppose,,
(through the extravagance of the very
hypothesis is nauseating) that the Legis
lature of one or more States had passed
such act*—They would have been mere
ly void. The next Legislatures, unless,
the State Constitutions were also an
nihilated, might have repealed them.
Who would have dared to excused such
act.- . Whence could have been procur
ed the men and money indispensable
for this new attitude ? What provision
could be made for Ihe public debt prin
cipally held hy the agitators or theit
friends; and by what means could a
separate peace be effected ? Fet for all
these conligencies the “combination”
must have been prepared—As if the fab
ric ot the National Constituiion could
be dissolved mid replaced by another,
with tnnre ease than “ Hamilton’s lawn
could be turned into a barrack or a malt
house.” In a word, the history of the
Convention is “a plain unvarnished
tale,” similar so that of other associa
tions cteated by law.— For its objects
you must look to its charter—For its
proceedings, to its private books.— When
these stand fair you have all the evi
dence required in cases affecting incor
porated societies, to defend their right?.