THE TRIBUNE.
SATURDAY MORNING, APRIL 13.
FOR PRESIDENT, .
rry* I?? Committee of Demorrntir Whit;
YOCXG MEN of the City and Conn:, ol ? ? tt fork. April
tth. 1844.
Resolved, that the fielernte. u| inoTuted hi it,.. -e..rT.,| Wards
lothe lsenuscrat.e Whnr xormeMen'i Convent
at Baltimore on the 2.1 day of May next, and all other Demo?
cratic Whig Youni Men of th. nty. wh? deaicn attending ;r,e
wod Convention :>?? reqoe*ted_tn meet at Broadway tloti.n
Wednesday Evening. April l'th. at o'clock, to make the
necessary anangements. Bv order of the Committee.
DAVID GRAHAM. ' batim
JoHrt F. Lorton. >?c' - al3 ?"
KT" The Tribune will be regularly served in the Citj
of I'miaped'UIa on the nrr.vn! of the cars, by leas r the
line and residence with '/?-d.er u t.v>. So. ?. I>si;.-r Buildings.
Pritt Fiji rs ' ? ah . rr i.- >' ** ? .?'- cot ica 3 cents. 3taw
BL*lr We tendet nut acknowledgments to Hon Messrs. W
B.Davto.-i. R. D.Ovvt.v. C. j. McNclty. j. Wetbebes
P. CSi-MfLE. K j. MoRBla, W. Hcxt. W. H. Maclay.J.
P. raonox. A. W. S. White. j j. IUrdis. II.Wbeato.-s-.
K. Fish, and W. S. UcBacLL, . <
O" Extra copies of this day's Tribune, in
wrappers ready for mailing, may be obtained fct
the Desk. Price2 cents, or ? 1 50 per 100 copies
Collector of tin- Port of New-York.
Speculation and anxiety on this subject arc at
length ended, by the nomination of Charles G.
Ferris as Collector, in the place of Mr. Curtis.
To the Editor ?/ 7 7. ( Tn 6 u a -
WaXHIXOTOX. April II ISM
Dear Sir: I understand the President has this
morning sent in the name of Charles 'i. Ferria us
Collector, in place of Mr. Curtis.
In haste, your",
Mr. Clay and the Tariff.
The Herald has discovered and parades in
Urge black letter that Mr. ("lav has abandoned
the" High Tariff System." Indeed: We did
not know that Mr. Clay hud ever been an advo.
catc of a prohibitory Tariff.' Look into anyedi
tion of his Speeches, and you will find him hold
ing, in 1812, ll21, 1-30, and at all times, just
the 6amc doctrines on the Tariff question as at
present.
He is for a moderate, wisely discriminating be?
neficent Tariff, to afford of itself ample Revenue
for the Government, and protect incidentally the
Industry of the Country,?in short, he is for the
present Whig Tariff, with the correction of anv
defects in details which must naturally develop
themselves upon a full and fair triul, ia a measure
so vaetand involving so many complex consider,
ations, as a good Tar:!}' inusi be. We believe
most of Mr. Clay's opponents are beginning to j
discover that his views are Bound and beneficent,
and to admit that he never was in favor of an
exorbitant, prohibitory Tariff". Wc hail the !
change with pleasure, and are even willing they
should fancy it a change in hint rather than
themselves.
Prison Discipline.
In a brief paragraph m Thursday's Tribune, re.
npccttng the new Matron of the Female Depart.
ment of Sing Sing State Prison, the following
sentence occurs :
" We learn from sources entitk I to implicit confidence that
shebaa done much to return) previous!) existing abuses, and
that the effects of her (irm tuid dignified vet kind and benevo?
lent deportment, (ire already strikingly manifest inthoesiab
lishiiicut of wholesooiediscipline and !'?1 increased ? omfott and
happiness of the prisoners.'1
Of tins paragraph the Courier ?f Enquire)
rjuotcsbut B single line, prefaced thus :
"PextBHMENi tor Crime.?The Tnhu.ni commends n rc
cent chunge in the administration of the Sin? sting State Prison,
on the ground that it bos resulted in the ' in ircosed ? ? m fvi I and
nappinct* ol the prisoners.'"
Is there any honesty in this ' Why arc not
the readers of the Courier permitted to see how
wc connect this -'increased comfort ami happiness"
with "the firm and dignified deportment" of the
Matron, and her "establishment of wholesome
discipline .'" Do wc intimate that they arc in?
dulged in disobedience, disorder, or luxury, and
thus rendered happier? Is it not plain that (licit
? existence is rendered more tolerable, because under
ffirm government and wholesome discipline, they
do not deserve, and of course do not receive, so
much punishment as formerly f And yet, on
the strength of this suppression ami perversion
the Courier proceeds to read us a lecture on our
dangerous sympathy fur felons and outcu?ts, our
opposition to Capital Punishment, ?Vc. Sec,?as
serting that
"The Stnto Prison is built (or the pKiusamewt of desperate
villains, of men who have been foutid*dangerou] incmbersof
nocictv. who disturb its peace, nod threaten its destruction. li>
inmates are tohhen, murderers, burglars, racendiariet, und tin
other icoundrels who throw on every precept of morality and
wage war upon society and its orderly und peaceable mcmbi
Alter u great deal more ol" tiiis sort, the Cour?
ier thus scarifies our sort of Philanthropy :
" It forgets entirely the erent body of good ami virtuous pco
vie who are entitled to the protection of Law. and legislate!
solely for the lienelit ol that doss ol persons m ho have by their
vices and crimes, nut only Ibrfeitcd all cbjim in the indulgence
and encouragement of society, hut incurred its just ind -?
punishment. ItbintruthtMniost cruel and unteeling Hscial
code in the world; lor while it shields the black and IiI.miI stained
villain from the reward of brsdeeds, n revel, in the it
of the innocent and vutuous."
Now to all this tierce lirat'c we put in a gene,
ral plea of Not Guilty, and proceed to specify in
our defence as follows :
1. We do indeed believe that, with a different
Society and Education, human beings might be
so trained or developed us not to need the appli. |
cation of stripes or fetters to deter them [which
these do not] from outrages on the lives or pro- j
perty of their fellow-men ; but we understand fuh i
well that persons trained under the influence ol
selfishness, violence and force, and living in the |
midst of them, will need to he restrained by force J
and terror front outrages on the rights of others
We reverently appreciate the beauty and wisdom
of the Divine injunction to ' put the new wine in
new bottles,' and have never proposed or advo
catcd any radical change in our modes of punish^
ing outrages on Property. Instead of advocatirfj
the abolition or modification of State Prison pun.
ishments, we are in favor of extending them to
the crimes of Adultery and Seduction. Such is
our view of the question of Punishments. True,
we would inflict no wanton pain on felons, for
wo never heard of one reformed or rendered harm,
less (unlesskilled^ by toitures ; and we have little
faith in their deterring |>o.vcr; but wc flew the
wilful criminal as we do the lunatic, as one to be
deprived of the power of doing farther mischief.
Our basis for Prison Discipliue is different from
that of most, but v. e do not differ essentially as
to the expediency of the '.lime; itself.
2. But when we are accused of " forgetting
entirely the great body of good and virtuous peo?
ple," and of " of" shielding the black and blood
stained vdlain from the reward of his deeds," wc
indignantly repel the accusation. We are firm- \
ly opposed, on grounds of principle and policy,
to such capricious, fitful justice as is generally
exercised by means of our system of alternate
punishments and pardons. Wc are opposed to
all pardoning except on the ground of the essen
tial innocence or adequate punishment of tin
convict on whose behalf it is sought. On this
gronnd, while opposed to Capital Punishment, we
offended excellent friends by steadily refusing to
petition for a commutation of the sentence of
John C. Colt, or do any thing calculated to favor
such commutation. Wc in ver petitioned for
pardons, but in two instances, and ono of those?
in defiance of strong misgivings?was for the
pardon of the Editor of the Courier and Enquirer,
then awaiting his removal to this very S:n? Sing
Prison. -We were only persuaded to du that by
urgent representations that he had received severe
andarnp'c punishment in the very act of constun.
mating his crime. Perhaps we were moved to
do wrong in this case. Hut d k's :'. now become
that same Courier and Enquirer to reproach oar
philanthropy as ' shielding the black and biood.
titaintd villain from the reward of his deed.;, und
reveling in the destructive of the innocent and
virtuous?'
Henry Clay Birth-Bay PestiTal.
Openlug <?l ?Ii?- Campaign? Speeches or
Mrmur*. Bolts. Da vi?. Collier and Hiuit.
Last evening one of the most enthusiastic and
memorable political meetings it has ever lief n our
?ood fortune to witness assembled at the Taber?
nacle to celebrate the Birth-Day Anniversary of
iur ;-:!lant Leader, Marry of the West The
immense body of the Tabernacle?which had
been j;aily bung with the banners of several ol
:he Clay Clubs of the City?was filled with an
eaijerthronj, ill pressing forward t.> secure favor.
tUe situations for seeing and h<arinj; while the
Gallery was filled, like a too-crowded vase with
flowers, by the ladies, whose bright eyes shed a
rosy lustre upon the scene. A fine band of inar.
ital music ever and anon hushed t!:e busy hum
?f the vast multitude with the thrilling clangor
?f its many voices, and raiacd the mind to lofty
thoughts. .Now a sweet and fairy melody from
Bellini stole on gossamer wings around the spa
jious hall, and anon tied frightened away, lost
.n the clamorous blast of the loud bu^ic and the
t.razen-lhrt a'.cd t'umnct?when, all at once, die
consecrated uotes of ' II imc, sweet Home," uro.
longed in dreamy and delicious c&dcnce, swelled
over the hushed and breathless multitude, send,
ing a thrill to every bosom and a tear to every
eye.
David Graham, Esq. now rose and nominat?
ed the following officers of the meeting, who
I were unanimously adapted, amid applause and
cheers:
ALEXANDER W. BRADFORD, President.
VtU Pre.'iufuU.
Jas.X. Reynold.-. Presidenl 1st Ward Clay Club.
RbvoC.Ha.nck. ft.lea: ll-t War-1 ''I.e.- Hub.
X. W. Hom.e. Presidenl Hid Ward Clay Club.
Jas. H-Bbaise. President IVth Waal Clay Club.
Joux C. Hamiltox. Presidenl Vih V-'ant Cfay Club.
[as. R-Weed. President VHth Ward Clay Club.
tY*M. ILSlVEKT. I' ? Vlill'i Ward Clav Club.
Marshall U.Kobertr, President IXih Ward Cfay Club.
Y.C-. BraDK?rd. President Xtti Ward Clay Club.
John McGowax. f're-i.len: Xltb Ward Clay i'luli.
W. HorrER Mott. Preaideni XI Ith Ward Clay Club.
Edward Collier. President Xllltii Ward Clay Club.
John t. Allen. IVcsidenl XlVth Ward Clay Club.
H.&Davies. Presidenl XVth Ward Clay Club.
Charles Turner, Presidenl XVHi Ward Clay flub.
Theo. E.t0mlix8ox. Presidenl XVUth Ward Cloy Club.
John M. Hl-mt. Nathan Richmond,
rSeoROE r Nesbitt. James Abbott.
James Van- Nostraxd. Mabcelli t Eels,
Charles Cbamberlaix. Ai uosti - Morand,
Gales T. Poster. .hois !!. Scores.
( 'larekox Cbuucs, Edward D. Wesi .
Conrad Sweet, John Beillt,
Cvros Chenkrv, Pmur Bressells.
Ann. Van < IRDEX. Jr.. CiisKLL- < felt KERIXn,
C. Roots.
GlLES M. HlLLVER. Jo?xT. .May...
JohnT.Dodoe. John a. S< huvler.
Josei'hKebb. P. II. Smith.
Wm. II. Lax don.
As soon as the meeting was organized, .Mr. N.
G. Bradford appeared upon the stand and, stating j
that that staunch and true Whig .Morris Frank?
lin, was present, suggested that he be invited to j
a scat at the right of the President. This was
received with acclamations; and Mr. Franklin
upon making his appearance, was greeted with a
burst of the most enthusiastic and deafening ap?
plause, which lasted several minutes. lie then j
came forward and spoke as follows :
For the renewed evidence of your confidence and
regard, permit nie to return you my sincere and
grateful thanks, and in the sincerity ol' an overflow
in5 heart, to renew my allegiance with you in the I
great and glorious contest in which the Whigs of
our country arc at this time ensured. And it is in?
deed i ncotnagiug to behold, in lite midst of a great
politie.il BpOStBCV, when many lire falling- on the
right hand an 1 others are wavering on the left, a no?
ble bind yet remaining, bearing up against the
slights of friends within their camp, nndopen niM
avowed enemies without.
In the rcoeiii contest from which wc have iusl
emerged we were scattered like a Mock without their
shepherd, yet when the rallying cry shall be again
sounded througout our borders,? hen llie bugle note
-hall be heard throughout the land, and llie smiling
masses of exulting faces shall animate the h ..t
and nerve llie soul?we will again present an uli
hroken phalanx ucniiist which the winds of political
despotism will blow in vain. And we will say in
the language of Scripture to all political factions,
"Thus tar shnlt thou go and no farther "
Yes, fellow-citizens, the enure of Henry Clay is
the cause of that man whom we nil love to own.?
We are nil one and undivisuble; and when the Ums |
arrives, we will flout his stuiulunl before our armies
und then the proud eagle of oar Country, will again
rise in her might, carrying in her beak the noble;
Motto of out Democracy?Excelsior, Excelsiur.
Again I diankyou?I thank you, 1 thank you.
After .Mr. Franklin had taken his scat, amid a
>torm of applauso an 1 cheers, the band played
the " Star Spangled Banner," in splendid style,
after which the following Ode was sung by Mr.
Hell, in a clear, distinct and impressive manner:
ODE.
Te se?'/Alf/ ('o/umbia.'
by c d. STCaRT. ESQ. Or new VOItK.
lit"/./. \! the morn in glory breaks,
And IV edom Irom her slumber wakes.
And peals her trumpet to the skies ;
White loud a .Nation's voice replies:
Huzza 1 to the auspicious day
Win ii brightly rose the star ?f Clay,
And high above the stormy blast
The how ni hope anil promise cast,
And broke by freedom's temple-fane
The remnant of * Oppression's chain'
chorus.
Firm, beneath its steady light.
Let us dare die low'nng night!
Soon slutll beam ;t brighter day.
'Ninth the star of Henry Clay!
Prom mountain high und lowly vale.
That tilimpet swells upon the sale.
And millions tioin thru labor spring
To bid the thund'ring echo ring;
And slowly break die cloudsawav,
While yonder gleams the stur of Clay?
< hir Victor, who in might arose.
And, o'er the heads of Freedom's foes.
The Constitution's banner flung,
And Freedom's fearless challenge rune
Firm, beneath, &c.
The farmei tests upon his plow?
The artizan with sweaty brow
Beside bis ringing anvil kneels,
And, while the deafning echo peals.
He breathes a prayer, and hails the day
When brightly rose the star of Cln\ !
Beneath whose mild, Protective light,
The harvest fields agaitl are bright;
While Commerce' wines, spread o'er the sea.
Bear on the trophies of the free !
Firm, beneath, Sec.
And now alone by Freedom's fane
Is heard that stirring trumpet strain;
But far,amid the Grecian isles,
And where Bolivia's summer smiles.
What gruieful millions hail die day,
When brightly rose the star of Clay 1
And o'er llie ty rant's bloody throne,
With kindling light and glory shone,
And left ti bow of promise there.
For thuse who still the letter wear!
chorus.
Firm, beneath, & c.
Then let us shout with festal cheer.
And hail the name to freedom dear,
Am! wiide our echo -liakes the sky,
Let every freeman's heart reply,
Huzza! to the auspicious day
Which drove the stormy cloud away,
And beaming o'er currupti in's night,
Restored the balances ot right,?
\A here, soon, his hand our Iocs shall weigh, I
And turn their idol? all to Clav !
CltO Kl >.
Firm, beneath its steady light.
Let us dare the low'iiug mght '
Soon shall beam a brighter day
' Neath the star of Henry Clay \
And now, introduced by die Chairman, appear,
cd the Hon. J. M. Borrs, of Virginia, who u as
greeted in a way that could not but recall to him
the warm-hearted hospitality of his native
' State. lie was unfortunately laboring un?
der a severe cold, which, however, he gradu.
ally overcome as he warmed with bis subject.? j
He spoke thus:
1 present myself before you, fellow-citizens and !
brother Whigs of the city ?f New-York, in redemp
I ion of a pledge that w-as made by my friends in
Washington during my absence from that city, that
1 would be present and participate wiih you m the
proceedings of this evening: and 1 come to speak
n gle ting perhaps the mos; interesting ijuestion.save
that of the success of the Whig party, to which I
liave ever been called upon to give my attention.
(Cheers.) It was not from any personal interest;
i but lor the v itidica?un of the rights of the people te.
j a full, free and uttrammclled choice of dieur Kepre
icntation in the 'Congress <i!" ilic United States.
I And iu coming liofure nun, I do so personally un
i known, a stranger to the rast multitude of upturned
! i'.ices before which ! -tund; 1 eoniC B Str?ngt r. ra?
ther hoping to entitle myself by sen ices hereafter
! to he rendered to the -rent Whir cans*, to yotr ,
j favorable con=i."ieratior. tfar. presuming or c'flrirC
j 10 hope that I have secured it by any iliitg
that I have dooe before : and if I do not siaul
abashed and overwhelmed by the enthusiastic r-;
eeption which I have met here to-night, i: is
because I know that I among friends, aid |
feel that I mn as much at home as if I was in
;ny own native beloved Virginia. (Cheers.) Is- :
loved she i-; for, with all her faults,errors and man ,
fortunes, which have fallen thick and heavy niwi
h.-r within the Ia?t lew year.-, she i- slid the land of
: hrASai5CT05, of Ji.Ffr.KsJ?. of MaDISjO*, HESoY
and Marshall; and lost thoiirh not least of
: ihes", of him ?hose Birth-Day wc bare ww assem
: Med to celebrate. (Three cheers for Virginia.;?
True, ulis! too true is it, that -he 1ms bfioroe a
I iiv-wonl ind a reproach among her rister states for
? t "ie infidelitv and treachery of one of her sous: But
lUu.r not the State for that; the only honor I claim;
i ! i set up a claim for in the caw.-- of Whig princi?
ples, is that it was (mo of the sou- of \ irgima that
first denounced dim as a traitor and endeavored to
j bring the puaHimeut upon him which the Constitu
I tion grant-.
Fellow Citizens,?Wc have been often told that a
crises had arrived in the an*airs of our Government
i and more than once has it been true that i crisis had
arrived. But never in my bnmbls judgement lias
such a time arrived since the formation of tins Gov?
ernment as that which now presents itself to the
people of th s Country. To nor Revolutionary Sires
I belonged the task and most faithfully did they dis
i bargen of establishing the Independence of Ameri?
ca in forming the Government under which we live;
and it i- upon us their children that has devolved, ii
not the more importantat least the wore responsible
j task of maintaining and perpetuating the liberty
j handed down to us by them as a rich legacy to iht tr
issue, and of perpetuating these institutions framed
not for theirs but for our bene fit ; and the question
I is how shall we proceed in accomplishing th*?
ull important ta*k f Fur the lint fifteen 'years
the reign of iloetmetiou?it I may use the j
term, has prevailed, a party has had the admtni?
i (ration fit" the Govemmeni whose whole object
seems to nave been to battle down and destroy -.1
I that was valuable in the Institutions of our Coun
! trv. Experiment has been the order of lb' day. un
lil at last we have been brought to the point when
it becomes the reflecting, the .-ober Whigs and the
ilisen ct men of the Country to take the subject ir. j
hand fur th- protection of their rights and the pres?
ervation of their liberties.
I shall, in tit- Address which I propose to make
this evening, indulge iu no personal reflections, ei?
ther on parties or on individuals. 1 am willing to |
rest she question which is in a few months to be de- j
cided upon political measures and policy such as
has prevailed and "ill prevail, it ever we nre fortu?
nate enough tu gain tim ascendancy, as no doubt
we shall be in the ensuing Election. I Cheers.)
U lm: are the true issue? now before the Psople '
"?n which the two gn at parties of this country are
divided ? The Whig party propose reform iii the ;
Currency of the Country; they propose a Tariff,
ami a ilistribution of the Proceeds of the Side
of the Public Lands. (Applause.) And our
opponents propose instead that half-tried and most
thoroughly condemned measure, the Sub-Treasury;
Free trade?if any one can understand that term, foi
I confess I never could?and a wasteful and cxlra
vngani squandering of the proceeds of the sales of!
the public lands by the General Government. Con?
stitutional objections nre (heonly ones raised to the
measures of the Whig party?aye ! raised, too, by a
patly that has never failed to trample upon the I 'onsti
union, and tu v iolatc ull laws und all ordi i?(cheers.)
Thev cannot find constitutional authority cither for
the incorporation of a Bank, for a Protective Tariff,
or for a Distribution of tiie Proceeds of the sales of
Public Lands; but they can find authority for an in j
-direction or a rebellion?'(applause.) Tliey can
lie I authority to disfranchise u Stute of in w hole re?
presentation?to humph- upon Inw,nnd create Kepre- [
sentatives in violation ol law. Should these consti?
tutional ipir liens he disputed any longer '. Why is i
it tliHt when ihc Whig party arc < ngnged spreading
documents nil over the land, that the Constitution of
the United States is not ??> t forth among the Peo?
ple? Why i^ it thai it is less understood by those
who have to determine upon it, and decide upon its
meaning, than any other instrument, |ierhaps?' I
venture lo usseit?ami I hope no offence?that il
the question was taken in tbis multitude to-night, u
would be mortifying to see bow many there arc ol
the most intelligent men in this community, us in
eveiy community throughout the country, that have
never rend it. Let us then eiiculale this document
us the best document which has ever been publish?
ed; place it m the bauds of eteiy in.:n iu the com?
munity that has to decide upon il. .Men go to the
polls to vote against measures on Constitutional
grounds, who have never rend llie Constitution in
the whole course of their lives. How mortifying it
Mould he if ii foreigner coming lo om country were
to usk one id your enlightened educated men whit !
is the Constitutional provision for a Bank; he should
reply, you imisi go furthei to make the enquiry; J
in ver read the Constitution. (A laugh.) I'm the Con?
stitution in the hands of every voter; i Cheer-.) nye, let
it be taught in your schools; let every lioy in ihr
Country understand something of the*Constitution
iiml the form of Government under which ih<-_\ live.
(Great applause ) Lei it also he taught in* your
Sunday Schools Mo other leSSOII short ol the
Lord's Prayer is so important.
1 find thai George Washington signed the bill in
corimruliitg the Bank of the Cuited States, who,
Mr. Deinagotige, w-as quite as wise as you. (Ap?
plause.) I find that James Madison ami IIe.nki
Clay (cheers) sustained the Constitutionality of the
Bank of the limited Stales, as also did tiie lion.
Ji.hu .Marshall in 1318. 1 respect the opinions of
such men. I might als.? nddttce the favorable opin?
ion of that pillar ol tiie Rich of modem Ben ociucv,
Andrew Jackson, us well ns of both branches ol
Congress. 1 might say, .Mr. liemocr.it. if yon can- |
not point out why it is not unconstitutional, 1 will j
not point nut why it is. Why, sh\s Mr. Democrat,
it is not constitutional because powers not ex?
pressly given are expressly withheld. Butsaysthe
voter, I lind that Congress hoe power to collect tax- |
es, und 1 take it for granted thai some means is pro- !
vided by which taxes can be tnken euro of.? j
Iu nddiiiou, Congress tuts power to coin mo?
ney and regulate the value thereof. Above
all thev have the power to enact all laws necessart
for can vine into execution the foregoing powers
and all others Constitutional. What answer have
you to make to that, .Air. Democrat .' And what do
you propose instead of this Bank I A Sub-Treasu
surysats the Democrat. Ah! hut I don't rind a
Sub-Treasury here. (Cheer?.) Now the true in?
terpretation is that Congress shall have power to
make all laws which are indispensably ueassary
suvs the voter.
fAIr. Botts here alluded briefly to the opinions of
Col. R HI. Johnson, John C. Calhoun and others.]
He would not undertake to disc USE the question
of the expediency of the Tariff with any of the De
j mocratic Party, because he considered a pinc
I tical fact worth a pound of theory and spe- j
eolation. Let any man contrast the condition
of Ibis country when we have had low du.
ties, with the High Tariff times, and he will i
[ see the advantage. Let him go back to 17S11, and
he will find that the second Law passed bv Con
: gress, commences with n preamble in these words.
-'Whereas it is uecessary for the suppott of Govern?
ment and for the protection of Domestic Manufac
j tures that duty should be levied, be it enacted, Jcc."
j [Deafeningapplause.] You will tind that no man
bus tilled th-' Presidential Chair of the United States
I vho has not recognized the expediency of a Tariff,
j When the principle of Protection was fought in Con?
gress in 1S-4, and Henry Clay stoo l mere as the
Ch unpioii of the policy, who wrre they wl o follow
j edin the footsteps of their illustrious predecissor '
I Who were they who looked up to Henry ("lav tor
I information, voted as be did.and sustained bim iu ail
1 his measures' ' Pel! it not in Galh?publish it not
iu the streets of AsValon,'for it will not be believed bv
I the Democrats ot the present day (Cheers.) Who
I voted with him lor a Protective Turin'' Andrew
Jackson, Martin Vau Buren. Thomas Hsu Ben
I ton. (A laugh.)
Mr. Botts here made a tew remarks in relation
to the Distribution of the Proceeds of the gales
of Public Lands and two or three other topics,
whith we are compelled to pa-s over. He
proceeded to speak of the annexation of Texas
to the United States. He opposed it in the
strongest terms. It wus a secret and clandestine
I treaty, and one which strikes deep at the foundation
I of our Government. It was rather fur the annexa?
tion ofthe United States to Texas. It whs a ques
I lion ofthe greatest magnitude, the consequences
j of which no one cm foresee: and that it
will lead, if consummated, to an untaedi
jute or ultimate dissolution of this I'nion he
: could not for one moment doubt. Ife was
; a Union man. He was not a Southern
1 man with Northern feelings, hut a Southern man
; with National feelings. By the annexation of Tex
: ns we nre to identify our policy with hcr's. and not
; her pohey with o-irs. We are to assume the debts
[ ot Texas in tins age of retrenchment and reform; we
! are in engsge in her brawls. Suppose Great Britain
desires :o occupy Texa?doc- it follow, because wo
? do n't want Great Britain to occupy it that we must
[ take i: I By no means. We have recognized the
independence of Texas. We have done it because
sue proclaimed herself independent. We have ter?
ritory enough already. The Annexation of Texss
Fin against it cut mm out.be it popular or unpopular.
(Cheers.) This Government must tnke Texas or
England. England has no more right to Texas than
we Dave. She don't wxal if. She ? au want it for
t:o purpose but for the cultivation of Cotton; Co:- j
ton m this country can only be cultivated bv Slave
labor, und England don't tolerate Slaverv.
The sin* inieres;? ?hieb would drive tu lo a die
solution from the Not til, v.ou!.I tend to unite rexas
10 the South; !>ut I never will, ns lone as we enn
lire in harmony with the Northern Siitcs. I nevet
will huz-rd a dissolution ot the Union. 1 ha.e thus,
fellow ci::z?*n--, rudely and too imperfect! y sketched
rouieot"t:t?* isriK- ??! the great contest now approach?
inj. Permit me for one inuinetit to turn your arten
tion to the two representatives of 'he two irreut par?
lies, thai are presented a? their champions and lea
dere. I will not insult your understanding so much
however, as to draw u comrnwtson between the Lion
and the Weaz-.l. (Applause.) No! I i? ill not in-!
suit your understanding by comparing th- brilliant [
light of the meridian sunio the feeble flame o: an ,
expiring taper*?by comparing a ciant and a dwarf?
Martin Van Buren and Henry Clav. (Applause.)
What page of the Nation'.-- History, pray, can we
turn to nnri not see hi- name recorded in letters ol
Sold! Wln.se voice thrilled in the t-nrs of tlie peo
pie in vindication of the people's honor ! and has
eter been opposed to the sneaking, -kuiking acts ol :
Mirtin Van Buren ' Who was it that was beard in !
?inpori ? ; De Witt Clinton ? I bave neverdcnotin- !
eel those opposed to the declaration ??' ?ur. because :
: I bdieved that honest and patriotic menwereamonr j
tho-e that made that d-JcIariitTon, ? ho voted from
proiermotives. I do think that he is entitled to
crecii tor 1- tiding bis energies to its prosecution,
ifl ? war was declared.
I isked what p*.!'*- you could turn to where von
wond not 6nd C lav'/name? Why, look at the Mia
! soui question; which shook this ntttioti to its very
: eentc. Who looked at Von Buren then '
lid nnv one torn ... .Mr. Van Buren at lhat crisis!
I (Laurhtef.) Would any man look at him if such a
' questan should again come under discussion??
U'iio?u- it ?lieti the question of Nullification wo?
rii-1 and every man looked with fear and trembling
forfetrol a dissolution of tlie Union and ceces3tion< t
Staus! who. when all eyes ?erc tin ned upon him,
: was firm und uiinuichiiig ' Aye, there lie is (point
' ing ?) one of the banners, on which was a correct
liikeiessol rfenry Clay) and his is a combination
j and i lorm indeed: aud on his brow every god did
seers to -et bis seal to live; the world assurance of a
umn. (Cr.v.1 npplause )
Now. what ol" .Mr. Van Buren. I Laughter.) In
what great scheme is Iii? name associated f (A voice,
?? Sub-Treasurv.") Why is it, I ask of his friend*,
that no charge "has every'ei been made ngain-r i.im
tnti linn tiuix-eeii BueialueU. ?ml ..i Cum ?loch he
bos not been successfully defended ( Simply be
cause he has made it u point to take every side
ol every question. He has been a Tariff man.
tin anti-Tariff man : he has been a Bank man. and
an anti-Bank man. under direction. A Bank man
for a branch ol that institution in Albany, and mi
anti-Bank man l>y hi* declaration of einmal hostility
to the institution. What question lias ever been
raised that be has not taken both sides' I>n you
compare a man win. has always been prowling and
mou.-in^ about line n cat in watch for li-r prey, to u
ninii noi:?tl for t ilent ami w isdom' Look nt the effects
oi Ins reelection to the Presidency?examine well his
conduct while in p.e.vrr. But why need we fear !
What ltn\e we to fear 1 He i* the only man of
their party that i ?n l?- run. with one exception?
?nd the only thing we have to fear is that lie will
not gel the nomination ol his own party?that ex?
ception is Join! C. Calhoun : and the only difference
between them is this?Calhoun can carry tlie State
of South Catolina, while Martin Van Buren can
carrv iheState of New-Hampshire; and South Ca?
rolins is rather the larger of the twu. What other
State can he carry ' (A voice, " Texas.) No, my
friend, lie cannot e\cn carry Texas. What other 1
Whv, if they pul Dick Johnson on the t;? kct ns
I'ice* President, they may carry Missouri am! Ar?
kansas, ami not another one. as I firmly believe.
Look at Georgia, al Maryland, nt Connecticut,
((treat cheering,) at the I3ih Hi-tri.-t of Pennsylvn
nia. I own the recent victory in this city?thai is a
purely local matter, which it does not become me io
take am act or part in?although not an unadulte?
rated Whig victory, was an unadulterated Loco-Fo
eo defeat. (Applause.)
Ifthe friends of tin* Whigs could know all that I
do ulnar the influence ol Connecticut, lliey would
attach more importance to the victory even iliuu
they do now; and il would l>e gratifying lo know'
that Amos Kendall, i hat most faithful ami trusty
representative of the Devil on earth?(Great ap?
plause)?if you could semi Ibor such men to
Congress to serve you as fuiiltfulty as he .Iocs the
devil, yoi; would never fear the Annexation of
'I'.-xiis?uje, and the man who issued one of the
ino i infamous biographies sustaining one of the
most complete murders, where j oor Dickinson was
shot thraush the heart, afterwards issued n pamphlet J
from Washington io -end oil io Connect ii tit, giving
ns n reason why Homy Clay should not be elected,
ilittt he bad been concerned in a bloodless duel?
ami io know that thousands ol copies ol ibis pam
plib i were >ent off to Coiinccticui on (he eve of the
election. Martin Van Muren i- the strongest man
iliev can bring; bill let them bring him, or any oilier
horse in their stable, or tum them all on together,
or let them run separate heal-, and we'll distance
them one after the othi r.
in concluding my remarks I am desirous of sav?
ing one thing concerning Virginia, dial my Irietuls
her.- may not be discouraged if to the result of her
Spi ing election should be contrary thcirexpectations
ami wishes. All our friends there are confident of
stieeess, but I tell you hones rly that there is a doubt
nimm the question. The cause of ibis doubt is thai
we have gm thousand* odds to contend with. Our
npponents have got them ihe inside of the ira.-t i.v
the position they now hold in the Senate,and the pro?
mises they have made, promises which will never
be kept. Mm tin Spring elections will not aneci
i he Fall, therefore don't lie discourgaged if we
should I?' defeuied in the Spring.
I tell you, my friends, thai Kentucky is not more
certain than Virginia i- in the Fall Election.
I inn sorry, my friends, to have cousumed mi much
time, und tear I have trespassed upon your patience,
nml encroached upon those that arc tu follow me._
This is tl>? tir-t limn thai I bave on er had the pleasure
and the honor of addressing n New-York audience*
but I hope I shall have the pleasure of addressing
\ ou in November, after die contest, and congratu?
lating you ou ibe su< cess of HENRY CLAY.
.Mr. Botts then resumed his scat, arid nine
ihcers were given?alter which, the Choir sang
the following Ode:
THE GATHERING.
Tojtk?? 'Huntert' Chums.'
From hill and trom valley.
They eagerly sully.
Like billows of ocean,
The m t-s is in [notion.
The hiics ate extending
O'er mountain and plain ;
Like torrents descending,
They hurry amain.
The Gathering ' The < lathering !
We'll lie there ! We'll lie there !
The (lathering! The Gathering!
We'll be there ! We'll be there i
There ! There! There !
Each eye flashes brightly;
Lach bosom beats lightly :
The banners are dancing.
And merrily dancing :
While proudly the stanJard
Of Liberty floats.
And the Music is swelling
Inspiriting notes.
The Victorv' The Victory!
That we II gain ! That we'll gain !
The Victory! The Victory!
That we'll gain! That we'll gain!
Gain! (lain ' Gain '
Again we assemble?
The traitqr|shall tremble!
Foreirong as the ocean,
A people in motion !
The Ides of November,
The day of his doom,
He long shall remember
In silence and gloom.
He long shall remember
In silence and gloom.
The ttaitor the truitoi '
He shall fall: He shall fall!
The traitor' Hie traitor'
Heshallfall! He shall fall'
Fall ? Kali. - FALL'
The Hon. <; itr.i r DaviSj of Kentucky, was then
introduced lo the assembly, and received with three
; hearty rounds qfapplaUEe. He proceeded to address
the nice ting in at able and forcible speech, ul which
our limits will illow ns to present but a meagre
sketch. He doubted not ; that be was indebted
ftr the honor of the invitation which had induced him
to be present, u; tii?** relation in which Ii? stood, as a
ron of Kentucky, to the eminent Statesman whose
?.iriutshad been so eloquently set forth by the hon?
orable gendenun n ho had pn ceded bim. He stood
bet?re them a -minger. unknown to fame, and would
add but a tew ia.-ty observations to the able and lu
'? minous speech of his friend from Virginia. On the
subject of the currency he referred with stunning
force in tlie authority presented by the example of
the great men ? ftbe Revolution, the frame rs of our
Government with Washingtos at tbeir head, who
had all sanctioned the principle? contended lor by
the Whigs. The Distribution of the Proceeds of
the Public Lands was a measure not only just an-.i
i wise in itself, and rightfully due to tlie States,
hut important its a means ot preventing fluc?
tuating legislation on the subject of the Tari.'F,
and placing that vital quesiioti on a firm and
stable ba.?is, beyond the reach ot party experiments.
With the large sums likely to be derived from the
sales oi the National Domain in our Treasury, the
enemies of the Tariff would be strengthened in their
luinous assaults upon the industry of the country ;
but if this money were distributed among the Si .:?
to ? hom it justly belonged, the duties "ou imports
demanded to secure a revenue adequate to the sup
.j of Government "uu!J be amply suffici-mi to-,
protect Ike iniei-sts of American labor. I In- Mat-*
Lu!,! thus be enable1 to .Ii? bar.-?' the .lebt* whiok
thev had contracted in the prosecution ol works ol
Intend Improveni-nt?works not ot a local rb.rac?
ter, but Ol'tne highest national importance. Look at
the' Erie Canal. Is not that a national work ' Sup?
pose we were in a war with Great Britain, who does
uot set- that ibis channel of a mighty commerce
w.iuid be of the higlu-t impoit mcc us a means lor
the transportation of men and arms ! The people ol j
the Northwest might tiiu^ concentrate a force onour
Northern boundary, winch would be able ts bid de- j
fiance to England. .
The great cardinal principle which divided the
two political :>iriies. however.? as that >??' Proteen >ti
to American industry. This w as a question w Inch
concerned uot the manufacturing interest alone, but
the int- rest of cverv m in who earned his bread by
the sweat of his brew- He wanted to feel the influ
i ence of the Government n t alone in its exactioi -.
: but in its measures adapted to secure the highest
; good of all classes and framed with a wiseai d bene
' ficcnt regard 11 the welfare ol tue anole people. 1 o
j this end it should exert all its powers. England
! might preach the doctrinesiol Free Trade to us, but ;
! her practice was oppose.! to such theories. I- ranee, ?
too. had so shaped her legislation as to aliord I to
tecliou to her manufacturers. Protection was so
clearly demanded by the interests ol the whole peo?
ple, that it ought here as in other countries to be?
come a settled policy, which no partv should dare
to disturb. It was u most significant fact, that of all |
the principal leaders ofthe so-called Democratic
party, there was-net one whose authority, at some
period of his life, could not be appealed lu in favor ol
a Protective Tariff!
The question now to be decided is, whether you !
will rallv to the defence of your cause, or lose the
victorv which might else be won, by your indiffer?
ence and supineness. Remember the glorious con
t-stofl8W. It was the Empire State whose zeal
and coinage inspired the heart- of nil her associ ites
j iu that migbtv struggle. Let all your local divisions
i be healed. Invite all who worshiped in the sacred
Temple of Liber: v in that memorable crisis, torc
! new their vows. "He trusted that this meeting was :
i no idle ceremony, hut that its effects would yet be j
seen in the. adoption of wise and bcuificent measures j
for the good of the country. No collateral issues
j should be suffered to divide "the friends of the
c hum. IJv ??-??Liing snoh divisions we should de
? rive the opposite party of their last hope, and en?
sure for ourselves a glorious triumph. Cur cne- ,
mies will find that the lion is not dead, but sleeping, j
and his roar w ill yet cause the Loco-Foco beasts of i
the forc.-t to tremble.
Mr. Davis said he did not come here to speak of
the eminent Statesman who h id been designated as ,
our leader iu the approaching contest. His hi-tory -
was identified with the annals of the country for a ;
! period of forty veins. Scarcely an important meu- i
sure had been brought forward within thai time, of
which he had not been the presiding genius nnd I
muster spirit. Of humble origin, he had carved his I
v< ay to a proud niche in llie Temple of Fame, and |
acquired ti reputation to which neither station nor
power could add new lustre. He was one of
the Illuminati of the land, as great as the greatest :
of them. It Was said of him !>y .li.lin Randolph of [
Ronnoake, that when he entered the House of Rep- |
i scntatives he entered the Speaker's choir,and that |
i ?? decision which be ever made there had ever been i
reversed by that body. Yes, gentlemen, said Mr.
Davis, when Europe was one vast camp; when
.Napoleon Bonaparte, the greatest military man
of the time, intended to found one vart, nay al?
most on.- universal Empire?on principles of Mil
itiry Despotism-from which he was only j
deterred by the bull-dog braying ot England?il was
the interest and intent of both these contending
nations to gel the I nit, d States a party on one side
or the other. Both of them perpetrated the most
j outrageous aggressions on our commerce and on the
I rights of our seamen; and then it w as that the in?
dignant eloquence of Mr. Clay roused the energies
of his countrymen to the wrongs which they were
suffering under the glorious (lag of our country, und
his exertions never < eased until .-he had waged war
with the proud .Mistress of the Sets. It was
his eloquence which induced u- to arm and to con
t'liuc the contest, mid after be hud aroused
by his eloquence in the Hulls of Congress, the'
hearts of Ins countrymen until lltcv had achiev?
ed a victory, lie was sent abroad on the negotiation j
for a peace ; mid a - he had st.I (hrcmost in anima?
ting the hearts of his countrymen, so did he labor
for her advantage until peace came with healing on
I its wing- to hi.n country. And then what was
hi- conduct iu the great Mi-?uiiri (.lii'Slion??
Ill that uwfol moment when it lurid cloud,
cliirged with Treason, seemed ready to break
upon the land, by his genius a conflict was averted
audthe hnlycon of peace again relumed to us. The
discordant elements which had ranged themselves
nlufi wore arrested by his means and ike storm which
threatened to burst on our heads were allayed. And
was it not in the recollection of every one that his
eloquence was called forth in the cause of modern
Greece, .1 subject indeed adverted lo iu the (Mo
which hud been sung in ti.is Hull? Yes, he had con?
templated the proud triumph of giving to modern
Greece the glories of ancient Greece. Had lie not
by his eloquent appeals, reminded ili-m of und ul
j must recalled the Buttles ol Marathon and Salamis.'
(Loud cheers.) And then, again, look ui his exer
I lions in llie .-.iiis;- uf the Sou til American Republics.
His sagacity and his foicsigbi had foreseen and
pointed ..ut iu Mr. Monroe the true course lo be
pursued-* and ibul Statesman followed the policy of j
.Mr. Clav, in hi? recognition of the independence of
the South American Governments. It was, how?
ever, the fen ill eloquence of Mr. Clay which moused
ihr people; ;.nl ji was kis Siiceohes wkicb, being i
translated and read a' the head of th- ir Armier, had
inspired the troop.- of Bolivar with courage to attack i
and overcome the Spanish Armies under Murillo
and others.
And this was the man whom the people ol this
City w ere called upon to giv e their suffrages to, in
the coming contest, who now appeals to every lover
of bis country?to every American citizen, whether
native born or adopted, to rally to his standard.
(Cheers.)
lu the year 1342, it was the lot of him, Mr.
D., after witnessing the perfidy of .lohn Tylei
to pass through Virginia on to the White Sulphui
Springs, and iln-re iu the darkest hour ol Whig de?
feat he climbed the loftiest peak of the A Meghanv
Mountains and made a tl ig staff lioni a sapling on
its native-oil. I'o that he united the glorious Aug |
of his country, and there it proudly floats to this
day. Yes, iu thai hour of aurknes and defeat he
burned 10 grapple with the subtle me.to contend with
him baud lo hand, and if overpowered to retreat with
his face to the lue until he should plant his hack a
- linstthai flag staff where he would defy their varied
tanks to either force him further, or to pull down
th?t glorious rlag of stars and stripes which he had
hoisted, and which still proudly kissed the laughing
breeze?(Loud cheers.) Yes, he would then con j
tend, inch by inch, and if the tlag should in ihe con?
test l-e wrested from his grasp, still would he cling
to every shred of it whilst life remained, and think
one hour of Whig freedom worth a whole life of Loco
Foco slavery?(Loud cheers.) Yes, if dow n that ling
must come, why, then, be I Mr. D.) was content that it
should be bis political winding sheet. (Cheers.) But
no! The prospect was changed. The winter of our dis?
content wus mede glorious summer by the Son of
] Hanover. <' 'heers.) The sun which had been hid
I den from us by the miseries of misrule, was again
about to beam on us and on that glorious flag, arid
i no Locofoco ciouds shall again prevent its rays from
; reaching that flag staff from which it proudly floats. 1
j (Loud cheers.)
j Why we are going lo l ave -nch another revoltt- I
' tion as in the year 1840, only a little more so, (a
laugh,) and this reminds mc of a little anecdote of j
; a namesake of mine, asmt of Scotch Irishman, who :
has lived in my -ectiuti of the country, which may
be worth your hearing. We have some rail-roads
tn -re not exactly so large as yours in the State of i
NewiYork, and this old acquaintance of mine came !
30 miles to see "the fccnomeiut ,"on<\ said he though)
the monster came along like Hell in Harness; und I
saw another about a greater fool than mvself
. give :l r.-:ir an.! pitch into the Loco-Foco Ma?
chine, and it turned out that he was knocked
; further than he ever expected ? and added
he. although I admire the courage of the
animal, the devil may take his prudence. And this
? was about a parallel case to the roan vvho should
run his head against Loco-Foco principles: it was j
saying a great deal for his cournge, but nothing at
'. ail lor his prudence, ((.'heers.)
Another great point in the present contest would
be this?there is a struggle going on in relation to
the vital question of the protection of American In?
dustry. I('heers.i He. Mr. D.. was present in
'.'.ingress, and voted for the Tariff Bill
j of loll; and in so doing he considered
' thai he w as acting on a great question, one necessa
i ry to the Protection of American Industry, und he
; hoped that the voters of ibis City would unite on if.
anil on eveiy occasion they would record their opi
ni?n ?n that measure. But suppose Mr. Van Bu
rcu and Ihe Loco-Foco partv were again restored to
powi r. up would com.- the Militia Bill, ihe Distribu?
tion Bill, and then v.mild follow low wages and the
consequent depreciation of American Industry.?
Were the people ol New-York prepared tor this?_
W mid they submit thus tu have entailed upon them
foi all time?all the evils ol ibis Pandora's Box.
Now if they were resoipte in their opposition to this
tram off vds, lot each man arm himself as if on him
alone depended the result; let him strike fur victory,
and he would obtain hi- reward, for a more glorious'
: victory would be the result than that which crowned
their hard fight in 1340.
Fellow-Citizens, -aid Mr. Davis, in conclusion, 1
have made these few remarks more from a sense
j of duty than as a mere matter of form.
your lime has heeii so ugreeablv and profitably
j occupied by my Honorable friend trom Virginia",
that but a lew words only were necessary for tue to
j add to his eloquent exposition. I thank you. gen
t'emen for v..ur kindness, and would before ftak
my leave of you, usk >ou, as Vmerican citizens,
whom Ibis land of which we are so proud has bee
beoueaAcd.ifyou will not stand by the principle
of American protection, such as will pve to even
laboring man a"pertaaneni prospentj I he peopi
of this countrv want stability in matters ol legisla
lion. Thev are tired of change and (hey do not
want to see the hark of national prospentj tempest
u?i nnthe billows of politics every year.
It is tbe cause of the people that I contend lor. ?in!
I and na friends onh n-k ior them such n system
Protectivn Policy as ?ill pennanently secure to every
,:,,?_:? evcrv American Ciii/eti?the Irtiits ..I Ins
hard industry '. Gentlemen, once more I thank ) o i
WashingtonHost, Esq., of Niagara County,
was next introduced to the meeting by the Presi?
dent, and spoke in a very sp'iriustiruig and happy
vein of doquence of the prospect of the Whig
Party in the approaching struggle. The late hour
at which the meeting concluded completely pre.
eludes our giving even a condensed report oi" .Mr.
Hunt's speech, of which we had taken full notes.
Mr. Hunt was followed by John O'Coluer
in a neat and pithy speech of a l-eal character.
After Mr. Collier had resumed his seat, the fol?
lowing Otic was sung by the Choir, and the meet
ing was adjourned i
THE CLAl Bl <;i E BL 1ST.
Air?' The Star Spangled Banner.'
l'\ 1lfreo h street, KjQ-. of albany.
Hark, hark! to the sound Stealing out on the air!
More loud and more deep its full swell is ascending;
High triumph tides out tie- bcart-siirrtiig blast.
And Hi pe's cheering song with its war-strain is
blending;
Each bosom leaps Inch
To the notes as thev fly.; (the sky'
Ob, what are those strains -weeping thus through
'Tis the blast of the bugle lhat calls to the frav!
The blast that peals loudly for Fredom indClay '
Oh. long have the clouds mantled black o'er our
heavei?.
Oh, long has the flag ofour glory been trailing;
Fierce blasts on its folds, drooping closely, been
driven;
a..J. d*?- ..p.... .la.- h?m its brightness b'-en palling;
" But the bugle's stein voice
Calls on all to rejoice,
Foretelling HIS triumph?the man of our choice
Thai blast of the buglt? t calls to the fray;
Tue blast lhat peals loudly for Freedom and Clav;
Pale Laboi looks upas the sound meet his car,
A smile lights his brow,? his heart glows with
e motion.
The plow glides more swift.?and with heartier
cheer
Tlo- canvass is spread o'er the breast of the ocean:
The I mil stirs once more,
Its (hill torpor is o'er. [shore :
Vs (he blast swells on huh, sweeping billow and
The blast of the bugle that calls to the fray;
Tbc blast that peals loudly for Freedom and Clay!
How joyous, how joy oils will millions of hearts
Re-echo the bla3i w hen oursun shines in splendor;
When the dark baleful shade lhat now blights ns
departs!
And our nation to HIM shall its gratitude render!
A shout of acclaim.
With our hearts all on (lame, [fame!
Let us raise lo our Chieftain?the bright son of
Let it ?well with the bugle that sounds to tlie fray,
The blasts that swells loudly for FREEDOMasd
I lay.
We have seldom, if ever, attended a meeting
where such a vast concourse of people were
crowded into an equal space, and we never siw
one of the same magnitude where greater order,
decorum or unanimity prevailed. The only aim
of the vast assembly appeared to lie in mani?
festing their devotion and singleness of heart in
the c ause of Harry of tiik West .'
sr. Louis Redeemed ::
Conctywmlcncc of the Tribune.
St. L?i is.Mo.. April3. ISM,
Dear Sir : "We have nut the enemy and they
an ours." Wc have swept the Commercial Ca?
pital of the West with a political hurricane. The
whole Whig ticket has been elected. The Whigs
have gloriously carried their Mayor, .Marshal,
Register, Auditor and Attorney, by a majority of
1 i >>2 votes!!!
Out of Six Aldermen, the Whigs have elected
?5. Out of Twelve Delegates to the Common
Council, the Whigs have elected 8. Out of the
whole number of School Directors, the Locofocos
have elected hut ONE. You can have no idea of
the efforts made by the Locofoco party. Tin y
drummed up for a month, and about four hundred
Germans and Irish were naturalized by the Cri?
minal and Common Pleas Courts, and on the
very day of Election, one hundred and eighty,
eight were made citizens, but still " wc met the
enemy, ami they are ours.'' They have been ut?
terly routed " horse, (bot ant! dragoons."
What think you now of gallant, glorious ' !?!
Missouri.' Her Empress City stands redeemed
and wu pledge her ior Henry Clay, she will
snunl by Boston and Baltimore in the defence
of she " Mill Boy of the Slashi s." Set that
j down as a. certainty. Yours, &c. St. Louis.
Chicago.?A special election of .Mayor took
place at Chicago on Tuesday of last week, to fill
the vacancy occasioned by the resignation of
Augustus Gabrett, on account of the illegality
of the previous election. Gabrett was again
put in nomination by the regular Loco-Focos, but
defeated by J HI voles, by A. S. SlIERMAN, who
was run without reference to party.
[Buffalo Commercial.
[LT'Thc public are looking- with some curiosi?
ty and a little impatience lor Bennett's response
to the blighting charges by Mr. VVikoff of levy
ing enormous black mail on Fanny Elsslcr. When
thall we have il 1 We have had the defence of
the managers of the N. Am. Trust Co. Where's
Bennett's.
Another Mob.?On the evening of the late
election in St. Louis, a serious row occurred he
tween a party of .Natives and Foreigners. The
Foreigners having driven away a party from the
Fifth Ward polls, were pursued by the others,
who had rallied and increased their numbers, to
a grogery on the corner of Fifth and Grecn-sts.
where the Foreigners h id entrenched themselves'
The Natives finding the door closed began ston?
ing the house, which was answered by a shot
from a second window, dangerously if not mor?
tally wounding a Mr. Joseph Jones. The home
was then attacked in form, the dooors forced and
the building riddled from top to bottom?the man
of the house being, as is loo usual in such eases,
entirely innocent of any participation in the mat?
ter, save so fir as the loss of his property and the
destruction of his house is concerned. These
rnobs arc quite as far out in their justice as some
Courts of law.
The Irish State Trials.?Wm. H. Graham,
160 Nassau street, has sent us a thick pamphlet
containing a fill report ol the recent trials of Mr.
O'Connell and others, in Dublin, w ith the speeches
of Counsel, Aic. .Vc. It is a very timely publica?
tion.
The New-York Voc.%t Society.?This Asso
ciation gave a most delightful entertainment to its
. friends on Thursday evening la.st. The selections
were very judicious, consisting of madrigals and
; glees of the "olden lime,'' ond from the quaint con?
ceits of the words, and the novel charai ter of the
harmonies, seemed the very soul of the old musical
?expression. The Society -hows evident marks of
; improvement, and wc hope to have many a pleasant
; relapse to the ancient melodies, through tlmir exer
: lions.
f~y Dr. Graham, in compliance w ith the wishes
of his friends and the friends of humanity, will give
u I.e. iure this evening, at the Society Librarv, on
Capital Punishment, in which he will -.how that
the taking of human life, as a penal act, is not now
sanctioned by the Bible nor adapted to prevent the
crime of murder.
Animal Magnetism.?Mr. Johnson lectures this
evening at St. Luke's Buildings, corner of Grove
and Hudson streets, at ? o'clock. A Lady will be
Magnetized, who will exhibit the phenomena of
Clairvoyance, Sympathy. Jcc
ET Navigation has been resumed on the Canal
between New-Haven and Northampton.
Lnrse and Enthusiastic Clay Meeting la
Philadelphia?
Cotiwpoodetice ..t' The Tribune.
Philadelphia. Ju i! U. P M
Pursaaoi to previous notice, ibe "big* ol the
City ami County of Philadelphia, assemble,] last
evening ?t tho Whig Head Quarters, corner of Che?,
n ,t and Fifth streets, for the parjww of receiving
the Hon. S.S. Prentiss <>f Mississippi. The room
being found inadequate to contain the great mast
who were pouring iti from u!l section*, the meeting
w?- oreanixcd in front of Independence Holl, ?her?
not less than six Thousand Whig? bad assem
^About fifteen minutes before S o'clock. Uoa
Mr. Prentiss appeared on the stand, accompanied
by Hon. John M. Bolts of Viremia, und others,
Charles Gibbons, Esq. ibanwbom a more zealoui
Whi? ?lor.- i?..t exist, cam ? lorward as the President
ofthc National Clav Club, and announced the ob?
ject of die meeting. Mr. Gibbons congratulated
the Whigs ol Philadelphia npon the recent gloriom
triumphs in Connecticut and Pennsylvania, ar:.l
concluded by introducing Hon. S. S. Premiss of
Mississippi, who was greeted with nine enthusi?
astic cheers. ... , . ,
fite speo h of .Mr. Prentiss, listened to with un
mine led delight, was one of the most impressive arx
elwiuenl addr sscs evei delivered in ibis City. II
spoke mr about tro houn n.-ul <i ha/f, and never did
so vast mi assemblage of People pay that attention
f> any public speaker, within my re. ollecb'on, as on
this occasion. I nui indebted to a friend, who took
notes of the speeck, foi a few btiet passages.
Mr. Preutiss said: Comrades, I u.;: happy to ex
change congratulations with you I am from a re?
mote part ol the Whig Ainiy ; but bete, in its gn-at
centre of power. I have ihe pleasure to declare that
a Urge portion ol the People of the South-western
part of the Union entertain the same sentiinenl*, the
suns views, in wbichall good Whigs are engaged.
1 have not come, said Mr. P . to set the waters ol
the Delaware on fire'.?No. 1 hope they may remain
pure waters ycr, and someday or other wash outthe
stain of Loc?-Foeoism! (Great applause.) I con?
sider that one of the great defects m this country is.
that the masses are too liable to I?' led away by lo?
cal and private feelings, so as to neglect the great
principles of tltc Government?attention to which,
on our pails, was a* necessary as the tuxes that were
raised tor tin* support of that Government. (Im
me use npplauoe.)
I will not disenss, -aid Mr. P.. the fantT and
Bank questions, hut simply state what are the feel?
ings ol our U lug ftiends mi those questions in the
South and South-west. With regaid to a Tariff it
is. that the Government should not only raise a
revenue by a Tariff, but so lay their duties on, us to
protect at die same tune, the prosperity of their own
country, giving mi opportunity ol a fair competition
-.gainst the products of foreign labor, in favor of
American Industry. (Applause.) Also, that the
Tariff might be so lar retaliating as to compel t'o
reigu governments to lay their duties on American
products, on proper and amicable terms. (Ap?
plause.)
With regard to the Bank question, I believe, said
Mr. P.. that the financial affairs ol the country, with
a view to produce an uuiform and equal currency,
should be the study and in the power ol the General
Government?whether that currency be of specie or
of paper. Such had ever been the Whig principle,
.?nui not that the great mass ot the Whigs entertained
nuy vcrv particular affection font Bank. Such, fel?
low Wings, are in brief, the sentiments on these tun
questions of Tariff and Bank, in the South and
Sotith-West.
Mr. P. then went on to illustrate the principle* of
the two great parlies, Whig ami I.> Foco, which
was done in u nm-leily and eloquent mannt r. They
seemed to him to be like the.Great Spirit- of Good
und Evil believed in by some nations of die East?
where they also believed that every man was at?
tended by a Good and an Evil Genius ; and certain?
ly, the Bad Spirit might be likened lllilo the i ieuilts
of Loco-FocoiMtn, ami that of ihe Whigs represent?
ed the Good Spirit'. (Immense applause.)
Allusion was made, in a beautiful manner, to the
Temple of Fame, and a glow ing description given ol
franklin's first visit to Philadelphia, with a loal of
bread undci his aim, which Mr. r. .-aid were awl il?
lustrations ol his sentiments?supposing the princi?
ples of Franklin as directed by the Good Spirt that
inspired industry and emulation ; and then supposing
what might have been the result of Franklin's hie,
if on his first urrival here, he had been met und ad
vi.-cd by some Locoloco of the present day, exciting
eiivv ami discontent, with ihcii concomitant idleness
ill his mind. The activity wirb which the bad pas
-ions were fomented, on the ? vc ol such an election
its that which was shortly to take place, by the Lo
cofocos, were briefly adverted to, and heard with
gratification,
Mr. Premiss then ubly alluded to the principles
of the two Parties, aualyzcd ami contrasted them,
giv ing a tree and glowing pit lure of the life and
character of the gullani lender of the W higs?
HENRY CLAJTol Kentucky -which was received
with thunders of upplause by all prcw nt. The un
preecdeiiled ? udiusiusiii excited by Mr. Ci.ay ami ng
tliti American People?his manly character, his lofty
spirit, his patriotic devotion to the Country, his in
vuluabli -i rvices lo the Kation und lo the World ul
large, wi re eloquently referred to; und nev er did the
Whigs ot Philud dphiu more williuglv respond to tlm
laiigunge of un orutor (bailed u ring tins poi tum of Mr.
P.'s Address. The character und life of Mm tin Van
Buren were dwelt upon in n respectful but snrcasiic
uiumicr. .Mr. P. considering it perfectly ridiculous to
compare die giant intellect of .Mr. Cloy with the de?
structive principles und obscure intellect of Mr. Von
Puren. Bui I con follow the able speukci no Ini
ther. He concluded by a stirring appeal to i!.*
Whigs to dischai ge their duty in the coining contest,
w hich was received amid hursts ol applause.
'f'!i ? ihunks of the meeting were then unanimous?
ly tend- red the I Ion. S. S. Prentiss for Ins able, ta?
lented, instructive and patriotic address.
Nine cheers were then given for Henry Cj iv,
when the meeting adjourned, a large portion of
which escorted Mr. Prentiss to his quarters ai the
U.States Hotel, where three cheers wet- given in
honor of the enthusiastic and eloquent Mississip
pian.
Massachusetts.?The following gentlemtn
compose the Delegation from this Slate (o the
Baltimore Whig; Convention;
Dtttc* ten. Su ittitu Us.
i???. fAiiuol Lawrence, Myros Lawrence,
w???'or-<"lU*pRO* Hull, Benjamin Klus.
Dist..I.Jiauiosi iiihis. Albert Fbarinu,
II.LLVBRfcTT SaLTOXSTALL.JohN I'. ALL'S*,
III. Dennis Conpry. William Si not ucr,
IV. SOLOMON SiKoMi. JaMK- DaNA,
V*.Thomas Kinsici rr, C <'. I'. IIasti.nos
rV.GEoaoK T. Davis, Wells South wortu,
yil.yViLLiA.-4 <'. Plcnkett.Thomas Lonoley,
VIII.DaVLD A. Simmon., Lumi m> 1'. TlLBSTO.*,
IX.William A.Crocker. Willi\m Davis.
X.Ueoroe 1!. I rroN. Charles Mariton.
The Clay Tribune.
At the suggestion of many Wfiigs, the under
signed will commence, the first week in May,
and publish till the close of the Presidential
campaign, a cheap Whig paper of moderate size,
Ui be thoroughly devoted to the advancement of
the Whig cause and the election of Henry Clay.
The Ci.ay Tribune will be half the size of
the present Weekly Tribune, (or exactly the same
as the Daily Tribune prior to its recent enlarge
merit,; and will contain substantially all the Politi?
cal matter which appears in the. Daily and Weekly
Tribune, with| a brief summary of the News of
die Day. It w ill be well printed on good paper,
and transmitted to subscribers for the full term
(a little over six months; at the following rates :
For a single copy..in cents.
?' 5copies.....
" 15 copies in one package..$5.
And in the latter proportion for any number
below 100. One Hundred Copies will be sent
to any one Post Office for the whole term for
?30, or scarcely more than a cent a copy.
Wc shall endeavor in this piper to do thorough
justice to the Tariff question, showing the vital
ncccsnity and uniform beneficence of the Pro
lective policy, and the respective positions of the
two great patties on the s ijcct.
Those who nuy sec (it to favor us with the;r
patronage will oblige us by sending in their names
as early as possible, so as to secure full sets,
since wc cannot afford, at the price above stipu
latcd, to print large editions on the chance ol
[ selling (hem. Wc can only ai;rec to supply with
the first numbers all orders which sh tl! reach us
before May 10th.
(LT" The first number of the Clav Tribun'' will
contain the Proceedings of the BALTIMORE
CONVENTION.
ij' Subscription.; may he remitted through
the post offices at our risk.
O* When single copies arc ordered, the price
of which is 50 cents for ihc term, the names of
the subscribers w ill be written on the envelope, but
in all other cases where clubs of five or more are
formed, the packages muat be directed to some
individual of the club or to the Post Office.
Orders arc respectfully solicited.
Ii K KB LEV it McKLRATH.
.. ,. , . ., . .?Trib?ne Buildinss. WO Nonau St
Act: }?rk, .Jpn/IQM. l&H.