THE TRIBUNE.
FRIDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 17.
% ^ - ejjh president,
HENRY CLAY,
OF KENTUCKY.
Twenty Copies for $20 !
Proposals for publishing an Extra Edition
OF
THE WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
Have you surrendered?" was the inquiry o
the commander of the Serapis, as the ? Bon Homme
Richard ' desisted from firing to repair damages ant
extinguish the flame* that had been rapidly gaining
the masterv of his vessel. "Surrendered!" an?
swered Paul Jones, " we have not *et begCN to
fight !" In that same spirit, the great Whig Party
of the Union, victorious on some points and thrown
bark at others, unconquerable by force but not im?
pregnable to treachery, having passed through the
Elections of 1843, now commences the organization
of its forces, the mustering of its battalions, and the
systematic diffusion of intelligence preparatory to the
great contest of 1844. Once fully organized, they
will advance to certain, glorious and beneficent
victory.
The Publishers of the New-York Tribune, hav?
ing been urged from several quarters to issue a
cheaper paper devoted to the important work of dif?
fusing to every dwelling correct and convincing in?
formation with regard to the character, principles,
objects and measures of the two great parties, have
hesitated to issue a smaller sheet devoted specially
to this purpose, since it would subject its patrons to
the same postage that is charged on our present am?
ple sheet, and must necessarily exclude those por?
tions of the Literature, General News of the Day,
and accurate and extensive reports of the trans?
actions in the Money and Produce Markets,
which The Tribune has the amplest means of
presenting, and which every family should in some
form possess. They have concluded, therefore, to
publish an Extra Edition of the Weekly Tribune as
it is, containing the same matter that is transmitted
to our regular subscribers. This Extra Edition will
be commenced with the number of December 9th,
containing tHe President's Message at the opening of
the new Congress, and continuing to the number
which in November, 1844, shall announce the result
of the Presidential Election, (being fifty weeks,
or numbers.) Of this Extra Edition, we will
send through the whole term Twenty Copies to
one address for TWENTY Dollars.
Where the papers are required to be sent to differ?
ent Post Offices, or where the name of the subscriber
is required to be written on each, we must insist on
our uniform price?Two Dollars for a single copy pet
year; Ten copies or more at the rate of One Dollar
and a Half each. Do not ask us to swerve from this,
rule, friends! for the thing is impossible.
The character of The Tribune is by this time gene*
rally known. It aims to reconcile the largest Free?
dom of Thought and Action with a profound reve?
rence for Law and obedience tu rightful Authority?
to be the stern foe of ull discord, anarchy and turbu?
lence, but the champion of every generous idea, how?
ever novel or unpopular, which has fur its end the
upraising of the oppressed and the lowly. While it
proffers no claim to the abused name of Democracy,
80 long the cloak of politicul Pharisees, the cant of
designing demagogues, ii will be, as it lias been, in
the legitimate sense of the word, truly Democratic?
the adversary of every wrong, die exposer of hollow
profession ami scheming knavery, and the advocate
of every movement tending to the diffusion of true
Freedom and the upward Progress of die Human
Race.
The Weekly Tribune is published in this city every
Saturday morning, but despatched by the .Mails of
w Thursday and Friday. It is of the largest Hize, fold
? ed in eight pages, so ?is to br about tin- uveragr .size
r of two common newspaper*, subscriptions, tire re?
spectfully solicited.
GREELEY & McELRATH,
160 Massy u.Mt
New-York, iVoc. 12,1843.
tut; au?iufIzcsl uy luw to tnuwr'>,,t moneys lor
Subscriptions to newsp.ij>ers, under their frunkv f lW 0f postage.
tCSr .Money remitted through the muil w?\ I*. nI rj,e nsk of the
Publishers. Notts of nil speae-puying Bu-.iks. u\ any State of the
Union will be received at prir. q ^ x,j
Editors will oblige us by^Copying the above Prospec?
tus shall he entitled ton copy of \Uz American Lasorkr,
u large and vu nable collection of documents ?lustraUng und de?
fending die policy of Protection to Horn? Industry, and to an ex?
change of paper*.
O" Thk Madisonian opens its eyes in silent
wonder at a letter that appeared in the Globe of
the 19th " without one word of editorial com?
ment;" stating what we thought every body knew,
that Martin Van Buren stood no chance for the
Presidency. This correspondent of the Globe is
in some things a very sensible man. He says:
Until recently 1 was in favor of Mr. Van Buren beim;
again taken up for the Presidency?forming my opinion prin?
cipally fiom the- tone of the Republican newspapers, and
those who consider themselves leading politicians. But, ot
late, I have mixed a great deal among the People, and have
takeu pains to find out their opinions about all the Presiden?
tial candidates, and my information amounts lo this : that
though there ary inauy who would In? glad to run Mr. Vm
B u i en again, because they think he wts badly treated in
1840, yet the current of opinion seems io be gathering
HOund that he cannot be elected by the People.
? * > * ?
He says again :
A strong effort was made in 1S40 to elect htm for a second
term. b*?t utterly failed. Now, if he is run again, it will b<'
the third heat; and people are not apt (0 run risks on u horse
lint has been distanced
We differ with him in the belief that any body
clue will run better?but it was not for this we
quoted hini. It was to show the glowing con
sciousness of the Loco-Foco party that its hour
has come. The article in the last Democratic
Review entitled "The Issue at Stake," has the
same gloomy forebodings, confessing that its party
is in the deepest peril and entering the contest un?
der most disastrous omens.
There is really something mournful in behold?
ing these two great organs of the Loco-Foco
party thus echoing back to each other their fears.
The Globe stands and looks over the shattered
ranks of its party while from it issues a voice
u Van B?ren cannot be elected." The Review,
beholding the same disheartening prospect, can
hardly summon courage enough to give the rally,
ing cry, and says, Mr. Van Burn and Calhoun
must be on one ticket. When such fears assail
the Leaders, alas for the subordinates. There is
something startling in this growing impression
that one of the most thorough and radical chan?
ges is about to pass over the public sentiment.
The fact that the Globe becomes the vehicle of
?uch sentiments as quoted above, betokens, we
think, some change " to be coming over the spirit
of his dreams." We shall sec.
From Matamoras.?By the schooner Muri
nello. we learn that the Texan Commissioners were at Mata
mora> dm thV24(h ultimo,awaiting the arrival of those on the
part of .Mexico.
The schooner Watchman, .Murray, was to leave on the
S6th ultimo foi this port, with $3**000 in specie oh board;
S'id it thr conducta arrived, w hich was hourly expected from
the luterior, the amount would be considerably increased.
[N. o. Picayune, 7th inn.
These Commissioners tire to adjust the Bound?
ary between the two Countries.
\W A Mr. Abraham Overholt, of Bedminster
township. Bucks county, p.. . was robbed recently, and an
attempt made to kill him.
ffj" Mr. Field, one of the Editors of the Pica?
yune, who accompanied Sir William Drummoud Stewart to
ibe Rocky Mountain?, has returned.
03* The house of Mr. Roland Burt, of West
{Springfield w as destroyed by the oti the ?d ult.
What Is the State 1*
Inquiries into the nature and obligation of
Civil Government are becoming more frequent,
? more earnest, more profound, in our day, and we
rejoice to see it. This question?' By what right
do one set of men exercise authority over ano?
ther ?' demands a deeper answer than has been
popularly given. The notion that a community
of ten thousand people are bound to obey any one
or fifty of their number merely because fifty-one to
fifty-six hundred of them command it, is clearly
untenable. For this community, regarded only
as an aggregate of individuals, whose supreme
f law is the will of the majority, is made up of
i smaller aggregations, and in its turn composes
I larger?County, State, Nation?each with a ma?
jority and a will of its own, which may be, and
often notoriously is, at variance with the others.
If the Popular Will, in this sense, is my sove
reign, to what majority is my paramount alle?
giance due .' The Nation enacts a law; the
State nullifies; the County, alarmed and dis?
gusted at the collision and the imminent peril of
carnage, secedes from both State and Nation?
what is the duty of the individual citizen 1 Shall
he obey which authority he chooses ??or some
prescribed one1?or neither '. What is the dic?
tate, in the premises, of a pure conscience, an
enlightened understanding, a genuine loyalty?
These are questions not easily answered upon the
basis for Government affirmed by Godwin, and
Paine, and the Journal of Commerce.
Prof. Lewis assumes a very different founda?
tion, lie bases the authority of Government on
the Will of God, affirming the Family, the
Church and the State, as three entirely indepen?
dent but Providential institutions for training men
to a knowledge and fulfilment of their destiny as
spiritual and immortal beings. I am bound to obey
the State, not because I helped to create or have
now a voice in directing it?not because it is the
most perfect possible organism for securing justice
between man and man?not because it is a Mon?
archy, an Aristocracy, or a Democracy?but be?
cause God has ordained Civil Government as a
means of carrying forward His infinitely wise
and holy designs, of instilling the idea and the
practice of that perfect obedience to Law which
is the end of all moral training and enlighten?
ment. I must obey the State, because I was
born into or under it, and owe it fealty from the
necessity of my being. I may seek to reform, to
modify, to change its Constitution, in accordance
with the principles and requirements ofthat Con?
stitution and in obedience to the needs of the
body politic?this is not disloyalty?very far from
it?but I may not lay unhallowed hands on that
Ark of the National well-being and seek to rend
it in pieces and consume it, hoping that some?
thing better may arise from the blood-soaked
ashes of the venerated Charter of Public and
individual rights. The Law is not my slave, my
play-thing, but my master, and obedience is a
solemn duty.
Prof. Lewis maintains that the essential idea of
a true State is that of a commonwealth in which
Law rules. A monarchy, an aristocracy, a re?
public, may be based upon abstract Law, and so
be a true. S tate ; or it may permit the ascendancy
of individual will or popular passion, and so be a
despotism. 4 The essence of Freedom consists
in the supremacy of abstract law over personal
will, whether the will, or wills, of the one, the
few; or the many.' If the ruler?whether a mon
I arch or a majority?be above the Law, then the
J Government is a despotism : but if the ruler and
ruled are alike governed by well settled, clearly
defined Law, then that State is essentially a Free
one.
We have not room to follow the profound phii
oBopiwcti dioiiuioition through which our author
developes hist theory?we must leave this to the
scholars, the inquirers, who will carefully study
his treatise. We have dealt with results only
The DiscourseVs thoroughly imbued with the wis?
dom of Antiquity, and is fortified by continual re?
ferences to antf citations from Plato, Aristotle
and Cicero.
Able, profound, and instructive, this Discourse
certainly is?it presents important truths which
should and must b?s heeded?yet it is marred by
faults which are mot faults of style only. It
evinces an impatience of opposition, a contempt
of all contrary teaching and doctrine, which is
?sadly mistaken in a discussion of topics so grave
and momentous-a seeming acrimony which is
out of place on such occasions, even within the
' walls of a Theological Seminary. The Professor
is quite too indiscriminate?too sweeping. For
instance, in his opening apology for his choice of
a subject.?(p. b\N
" When we call our theme political, let there be no ap?
prehension that we would insult such an audience as this
with any of the mere part} slant; of the day."
Sir Professor, if you Jo nut consider all the Po?
litical discussion of our day mere 'party slang,'
this language is ill chosen. If you do mean this,
you arc greatly mistaken. Every where, great
and vital principles are involved in and aftected
by these party controversies?witness the Rhode
Island convulsion, the Right of Petition, Nullifi
the New-York and Virginia Controversy, <Scc.
Sic, to say nothing of our Currency and Tariff
discussions. These must be very superficially
regarded by one who perceives of them nothing
but * party slang.' If you mean only that con?
temptible men will treat the gravest questions
contemptibly, you should have spoken more
j guardedly.
?Here is another passage equally hasty, which
we censure sufficiently by quoting it: (p. 34.
?? Tiiis whole cant al out self-government is on a par with
that waich we; frequently hear respecting selj-educated,
self-taught, and evu self-made men?a class who are gen?
erally found to l>e the most mischievous members of the com?
munity which is so unfortunate as to have given them birth.'
My good sir, when we have settled wherein
consists a Cue Education, how much of it is de?
rived from jrrofessors and Classics, and how much
of it is evolved from Nature, and Life, and the
Heavens above us, it will be time enough to put
forth such sweeping dicta as the foregoing.
We heartily approve what our author affirms
of the duty <?f reverence for Law as Law, and lor
the Civil Power as in a sense ' ordained of God.'
V\ bat lie affirms and most ably maintains of the
perpetuity of the State, the enduring nature of
its existence and the obligations of its citizens,
is also naost acceptable. But when he comes to
speak of the opposite theory?the doctrine rather
su^cst-ed, we think, than deliberately affirmed by
Jenerst ?n, and caught up by Young and the Semi
Repudiating Radicals of our dav, we think he
might have been equally conclusive without ap?
pearing so bitter as in the following passage :
p. 17-19.)
'? Aristotle says, that the life of the State is ever one and
"A Discourse on the Thve Idea of The State as a
Religious Institution, toother with the Family and the
Church, ordained of God: Delivered Sept. 5, 1S43,
before the Porter Rhetorical 3societv of the Theologi?
cal Seminary, Audover. .Mass By Tavler Lewis,
Prof, of Greek in the University <>i" the City of New
[ York: (pp. b6.) New-York-* M-H- Newman.
the same, although its -r.issts at- ever in the act of beici:
born and perishing. Again, he tells us, that we can alour
determine its identity, by having regard to its idea, its polity
or fundamental law, and not to the generations who may be
at any one time inhabiting the same space. The sag- ol
Monticello comes to direciiy opposite conclusions. His phi?
losophical mind, after the most profound investigation,discor
eied that the age of a Stat? was about the same with the r
dinary age of a horse, and that its viral functions could not
much exceed thirty years, or the period of one generuion of
'h..se who inhabit its territory ; ?>.: the end of which time all
laws h>st their force, and required the operation of some po?
litical galvanism, to impart to them a renewedvitality. This
philosopher, whether he knew it ornot, belonged to the Ionic
school , and of course he rejected that doctrine of ideas,
which leads to conclusions in moral*, theology, and politics,
directly at war with the illumination of ths eighteenth cen?
tury, especially that which was produced from the volcanic
light of the French Revolution. He h.ld that all things
flowed, and of course, as the inhabitants of a given terntorj
died in about thirtv years, the State died with them. As I
any idea of a State', or of anv organic v. hole as distinguished
from the present individual atoms through which its life was
exhibited, he could form no conception of any such invisibU
matter. It was something which could be neither seen, nor
heard nor grasp-d bv the hand, and theretore form UO part ot
the philosophy of the follower of Condorcet. A consistent
adherence to this school of materialism, led him also to re
je? that great idea which is the parent ol all other ide^s. or
as he expressiv savsin on* of his published letters. " he cold
form no conce'pti?u of a God aside from matter." It is clear,
however, that he had not thoroughly studied the doctrine of
that ancient school, which he followed rather by a sympa?
thetic instinct, than from any profound investigation i f its
teoet-s. He mighr, in that case, have rivaled eveu that an?
cient worthv, who reproved one of his fellow illuminati for
saving, that'ic was impossible twice to leap the same stream ;
no', not even once, said the more enlightened sage, w ho c u
.-ied his philosophy of fluxions so far, as to hold that no pro?
position or assertion of a fact could remain true for two con?
secutive moments, because its terms were continually chang?
ing during the very period of articulation ; that therefore,
since facts or phenomena were the only real existences, it was
utterly impossible to speak the truth, and accordingly, as
Aristotle tells us, he ever after held his peace, and to ewy
question made no other reply than unly to move his finger.
But, to treat <-ur subject iu a more serious manner, there is
no reason why Jefferson should have stopped at thirty years,
any more than at five or one. Any substance whatever,
viewed merely as an aggregation instead of an organic whole,
loses iu identity, not merely by the change of a majority,
but by th* loss of a single particle. It i3 no longer the same
mitter. The State thus regarded is ever losing its oneness
aud totality. Its obligations are ever dissolving; 01 rather,
on this theory, it can never be bound. We might as w-l! at?
tempt to bind the cataract that ever flows down the Niagara.
If the fundamental law of the State is the will of a present
majority, (as some boldly assert, who deny the right by any
restrictions to impede such will,) then one ship-load of for?
eigners may vary that majority. The changes of a very short
period may make it a milter of utter uncertainty what our
fundamental law is, or rather on such a view, there can be
nothing fundamental. Ti.e term is wholly out of place. In
such a State, or rather iu such a mass, all things must forever
flow. It is a structure built upon the waters,*1 &c.
We cannot doubt that this Discourse will re?
ceive, as it deserves, a very general and thought?
ful consideration.
Farther Returns from Massachusetts,
The Boston Atlas of the 15th adds Williams
town and Hancock to its former returns, so that
the Governor's vote stand thus :
governor's vote.
Briggs. Morton. Seat.
Aggregate as before...57,069 52,770 8655
Williamslown. 202 240 2
Hancock. 05 03
Total.57,330 53,073 8857
Leaving Briggs's majority over Morton, 4,203.
Majority of all other votes over Briggs, 4,594.
The towns of P'lorida in Berkshire County, and
Chatham in Barnstable County, only remain to
be heard from.
House of Representatives.?The additional
returns make the House at present to stand?165
Whigs and 110 Locos : leaving the Whig major
ity in the House fifty-five. Thus far it goes well.
Senators.?On farther returns it is doubtful
whether there is any election of Senators in Berk?
shire Co. They were put down as elected and
Loco-Foco. If no election has taken place, as it
now seems probable, the Senate stands?Whio-,
12 ; Loco, 5 ; no Election, 23. Leaving a Whig
majority of seven instead of five in the Senate.
Congress.?Elections were to be held in four
Districts on Monday for Members of Congress,viz:
the Third, Sixth and Seventh, where no choice
had been made in previous elections, and in the
tenth to supply the place of Mr. Burnell, deceased.
In the former there is still no choice, although in
the sixth and seventh there is a decided Whig
gain.
Mr. Grinnell, Whig, is elected in the tenth
District by a majority of 030. The town of
Chatham alone remains to be heard from, which
will affect the returns very little cither way.
A LBANY COUNTY?[Official.]
Whig. Loco.
Senate. . .John T.Moore. .6032 'Stephen C. Johnson. 5632
JJssembly.' Samuel Stevens.596*2 Junes R. Rose. . ..568A
'Simon Veeder. .6043 Joseph Conner. . ,.56S9
'Levi Shaw. . ...r>!?74 Rushmote Bennett.674:2
Sherijf .. .*Chri'rBattermaa.5864 Henry Sluan.5827
Ctevk. . .'William Mix.?6035 David Springstaed . 55S3
Average majority 272. " F.lected.
Ma. Adams.?The address that Mr. Adams
was to make in Cincinnati the day after the
laying of the comer stone of the Observatory,
is not given in full, as the Astronomical Society
wish to publish it entire. It was listened to with
deep interest and received with great applause.
We should say first, however, that the speech of
Judge Burnet, introducing .Mr. Adams to the au?
dience, was a line eulogy on the character of the
Puritan, and on Mr. Adams himself.
The portion of Mr. Adams's speech that is
given is chiefly on our government?the peculiar
principles on which it is based, and the sacred,
inviolable rights it secures to each?rights which
no combination of power can take away, He
spoke of the happiness such a government cun
ferred on the subjects of it, and said that they
were happy or miserable, just in proportion as the
government acknowledged or denied these rights.
But we can get no correct idea of the excellence
or real scope of the address till it is published.
The people ol Cincinnati listened to lam as they
would have listened to one of the patriarchs of
the revolution risen from his triumphal grave.
The last act of Friday was to consecrate the
hill, which was done with acclamation.
The Bar were to give Mr. Adams a dinner on
Saturday, and on Monday he was to leave in the
steamboat Ben. Franklin, for Wheeling. The
invitation to Louisville he was compelled to de?
cline, as well as the one received at Cincinnati
from Henry Clay to visit him at Ashland.
XJ" The Philadelphia Ledger has received a
a letttr fiom Fottsville stating that Rev. Mr. Sparry has been
arrested in that townjby the AttomeyjGeneral on information
lodged against him by Judge Palmer, of thu place, to answer
for having sold a:,d distributed a grossly immoral book, said
to be ? Extracts from Deu's Theology."
?" The Quebec Gazette, in speaking of the
wreck of the transport Premier on the 4th insl. near Cave
Chatunor, ou her way to the West Indies with the right
wiug of the 1st Royals ou board, says that another vessel, the
bark Java, has gonea?hore iu the same place, and expresses
a ftar that the passengers and crews must sutler much
On the bleak shares before the would be taken ofT. The Uni?
corn had left to bring np the troops.
Sl'eakership of the legislative council.?
Mi. Caron, the French Mayor of Quebec, has been appointed
Speaker of the Legislative Council, in the room of Vice
Chancellor Jamesou, who resigued w ith th* " thirteen "
The 'hree estates of this realm are now headed by three
Frenchmen !?King Louis Hypolite being at the head of trie
Executive Council?Mr. Mayor Caron it the head ol the
House of Lords?and Mr. Austin Cuvillier at 'behead of
the House of Commons. So much for French influence.
[British Whig.
Indian Troi/bles.?The Platte Eagle of the
"26th ultimo, says:?" We learn that the Sioux committed
some depredations iu the attached part of Holt a few days
since A correspondent in that section writes us that
serious difficulty is duly anticipated with the Sioux and
Otto?s. It was a sad oversight on the part of the Com?
mander of the Military Division in withdrawing the Dra
goons, at thu crisis, from Fort Croghan."
_ O* A meeting of the citizens has been held at
Kingston, to take measures for sending delegates to London,
lor the purpose of remonstrating agaiust the removal of the
seat of government. Nearly three hundred pounds w as sub?
scribed on the spot to defray the expenses.
Singular Phenomenon.
Mr. James Arlington Bcnnet has written an
interesting and curious letter to the Commercial
Advertiser respecting several mettors he has
noted during the last few years. Respecting the
first he says:
Bei: near the sea shore Suine years ago, in the month of
August, I observed a bright rn.-t.-cr descending; right in front
of me, almost in a perpendicular line, and not, to appear
mce three rods distant, and being b-t?r-u me and the *e,
it maintained its light until it almost touched the ground.
A li?hi shock instantly struck my ear as though something
had fallen. I approached the spot, but there being uuly
star-litrht rmild see nothing:- On feeling on the ground,
however, I stuck my finger into something soft, which I
found to have a most peculiar fetid smell, like nothing that
I had ever met in the laboratory or any where else. Nett
morning I eximiued the place and found about two pounds
ofbrrwn jelly, which had descended in globular form, but
had been broken by the fall and formed a small segment of a
sphere. Having uo means of either weighing or analysing
this Matter, I passed it by with the conjecture that it was
the substance which forms these meteors or 'falling stars."
The altitude of this meteor could not be more than oue hun?
dred yards.
The next fell in the pail of his milk-maid, de- j
positing the same kind of jelly without her ob?
serving its fall. The onlv elfect of the shock
was to throw the pad a little on its side.
The third that presetted itself was about the Utter end
of July, last year. Having gone toward the stable between
II and 12 o'clock, of a very clear night, 1 noticed all of a
suddm that the East end ot the coach-hou?e presented a br.l
liant light, and turning to look for the cause, a most splendid
meteoi, which had run n-aily half us course, leaving a bril?
liant streak of light after it, was descending directly toward
me, on au ancle of about 45 degrees, when it immediately
ceased to shine. ' There goes another jelly,' said 1 :<s myself,
' which 1 must hunt up in the morning.9
Mr. Bennet marked the spot where it fell, and
next morning proceeded with a lad to find it. It
had fallen farther off* than he expected, and he
?ays :
I ; issed four fields without success, when at the lower
end of ihn fifth field, a piece <>f meadow Und, full half a
mile from where I stood, to my wonder and admiration 1
discovered, a little on the right of the line of s-arch, a body
of dark brown jelly, exactly like one side of a convex lens,
three feet in diamet-r, but broken into many pieces by the
fall. Tbe stench was most insufferable. This body of jelly
befi>r>- it fell must h ive formed a l'I jU- of from ten to twelve
inches i i diameter, if not more. This jelly, which lay on
the spot where it fell until the 12th of September following,
entirely destroyed all the grass under and near it. Now 1
think that taking the base line of a right angled triangle at
doubl-the distance from where I stood, and this meteor hav?
ing its formation at the head of the perpendicular, its altitude
must be counted at least one mile, as its downward course
would trace the hypotheuuse of the same triangle for some
distance.
I put a piece of this jelly on the coals, the odor from
which drove the servants from the kitchen. There arose
neither flame nor smoke, yet it extinguished the coals where
it lay. Being very busy at the time 1 did not attempt to de?
termine its constituents. Its fracture was not, however, like
that of jelly, but it appeared to break into cubes.
Ther- is a possibility of this meteor having had its origin
much higher in the atmosphere than here supposed, ?s its ve?
locity appeared 10 be very great, but as I heard no explosion
by which its true distance and altitude mieht have been de
termined, the elevation of one mile is but hypothesis The
meteor of the ISth August, 17S3, described by Mr. Cavello,
in the Philosophical Transactions of London for 1784, he
places by vague and uncertain data at an elevation from the
earth of o6J miles, and pretends to have heard the explor.iou
twelve minutes after, at 130 miles distance!
May noti each of these jellies be the residium or syntheti?
cal result of the zornbustion or diicharce of a large portion
of gasses, throug.i an electrical agent? The universal down?
ward tendency of their motion shows that their specific
gravity is much more than that of the atmosphere, and that
they therefore must be formed at the moment of discharge.
The editor puts directly after this, the account
of the shower of flesh and blood that fell lately
in South Carolina, and says perhaps Mr. B.'s
theory will explain it. There may be something
in this ; and the two substances noticed in each
case may result from the same cause, and that so
often laughed at under the name of" a shower of
flesh and blood'' be a very philosophic and true
thing after all.
But that Mr. B. is mistaken in calling them
meteors in the common acceptation ofthat term,
we have no hesitation in saying. Those fiery
masses tiiat pass so rapidly through the air, ac?
companied often with loud detonations and throw,
ing otl* fragments that reach the earth, are some?
thing entirely different. Those fragments are stone
and are hurled so violently as to be embedded in
the soil. The meteor described by Mr. Cavello,
in 17>3, and to which Mr. Bennett refers, we take
to be an entirely different thing from ordinary
shooting stars. That it had a great altitude is
also highly probable, lor some of them most cer?
tainly have. The heavy stones which they have fre?
quently hurled to the earth, would have eft'ec
tuallv demolished, we think, the maid's milk
pail. The substance of the meteoric showers, so
called, no one pretends to know. They are sup?
posed, however, to be entirely different from the
ordinary shooting stars.
The falling star that any one may see of a clear
night, has long been regarded by philosophers as
a gelatinous matter, inflated with phosphuretted
hydrogen gas: and the splendid meteor of Mr.
Bennett was doubtless one of these ordinary
shooting stars appearing very bright by its prox?
imity. The gelatinous substance he found, ac?
cords with the experience and theory of others,
and indeed is a very singular and curious cor
rolioration of them.
That these substances ' must be formed at the
moment of discharge,' we do not think necessary.
Their ascent and descent would depend entirely
on the amount of gas they contain.
The idea of accounting for the showers of flesh
and blood on this theory is certainly new to us,
and deserves, we think, a second thought.
Messrs. F-oitohs,?There has been much said recently
in reference to the low rates of wages, and the few avenues
open f >r ?.,ineu to obtain au honest livelihood. I have long
felt that this should claim the special atteuti. u of trr
philanthi mist and,Christian, and though at present we may
not nave a persona! interest iu the subject, yet every reflect
ing person must feel, as they see the various' change.? of foi
tune.e;-,, in the life of one individual, that the ?e~xt turn of
the wheel may place ihem where they too must toil for their
daily bread. This subject ought not only to mteresr seams
Tes^-s?but methinks that e\eu those who now think it for
their interest to keep their wages as low as possible, are
using but a short-sighted policy, for all of us can call to
miud many of uur acquaintances that yesterday were the em?
ployers, who to-day are the employed.
If these things are so, all have much a: stake here, and the
question arises, w hat can be done f A few paragraphs in the
duly papers will not accomplish ir, nor simply saving,
" These things ought cot 30 to be." What think you,
Messrs. F.ditors, should seamstresses and others who feel in?
terred ou this subject form themselves into Ward Socie?
ties for the purpose of collecting facts and devising some
plans whereby female labor will be more available? Per?
haps the facts solicited ought to consist in statements; of
whom the work is received, and how much is given,and theu
your paper and others publish, without fear or favor, the
uanics aud amouut given by employers, so that the commu?
nity can judge whom they ought to patronize.
We would say to our fair correspondent that
there is nothing like trying. Association is the
grand instrument by which Society is modified
and changed at the present day. and seems to be
the only way by which people in any country are
likely to get their dues. " A fair day's wages
for a lair day's work " is our motto, and we be?
lieve, the rule of right. [ Ed. Tr.
XT* Professor Bronso.vs second lecture takes
place this evening in the Apollo Saloon. The
rirst on Wednesday, we understand, was well
attended and highly instructive. He designs to
adapt his lecture this evening to those who shall
commence then their course of lectures. The
??M mnikin" accompanying Mr. Bronson's illus?
trations is a perfect exhibition of the mus?
cular system. Among the eight recitations and
songs arc Genevra, or the Lost Bride, John
Adams's supposed speech on adopting the Decla
ration of Independence, I'm Affoat, by Russell,
Mistletoe Bough. Flow Gently Sweet Afton,
with Mr. Bassford for accompanyist on the piano.
BY THIS MORNING'S MAIL. !
Things Iu Philadelphia.
Gorrespoudetice of The New-York Tribune
Pli i lade lfhi a , Not. 16 ?P. M.
The ??Ii3i Missionary meeting of the Baptists on Tuesday
evening, vvas large,and the friends of the Missionary mani?
fested more than ordinary feeling upon the occasion. A
number of addresses Were delivered, the most powerful i
which was by the Rev. Eugeuis Kincaid, from Burmah
After the exercises of thu evening were concluded, a collec?
tion took place, which amounted to fSiO, and pair oj gold
tar-rings ' A number of pledge, were given, among which
was one iu the following words ?" One dollar per dav'so
long as the Lord shall prosper me."
Boi ;> Robbert.?wm. Hamilton, a fellow well kuowu
to our police, was committed to prison this afternoon t i
robbing a gent!* man from Cincinnati of his gold watch while
passing along Third-st.
A Circular has been distributed among the Inspectors of
the Customs iu this City, lauding Johu Tyler, for signa?
tures, pledging tosuppoit him for the Presidency in 1S44!
It has caused considerable merrimeut among our ritizens.
Custom Hocse.?Johu P. Frick and Jacob Soud-r have
been appointed Inspector* in the Custom House. Of course
they are good Tvler men.
A Fireman Oowictko.?Iu the Court of Sessions, this
morning, a fireman named Henry Lewis, was convicted of
being engaged in oue of the recent Su::day riots.
Perjcrv. ? Wm. W Marriner is now on trial for per?
jury.
The weather being stormy throughout the day, all busiur^s
transactions have been in a measure suspended.
The business iu our Stock Market to-day was not as ani?
mated as duiing the past few days, and prices were generally
downward. State riv#s sold at ?S?; Tennessee Bonds at
?56; Pennsylvania Bank at2*27; Philadelphia at 94j; Girard
7j; United States Bank 6:, Norristowu Rvilroad 3. State
Sixes were offered at 76, with 73 bid.
Nothing new in Exchanges.
The Odd Fellows' Offering.?This is the
Annual of the Odd Fellows for 1S44. It is neat
ly got up and contains a large number of engra?
vings. We have noticed several finely written
tales and excellent pieces of poetry. Those who
have seen the Annual heretofore will find the one
of this year enlarged and improved. If any one
asks what is this Odd Fellowship, there is an an?
swer given on page 100.
" WHAT IS ODD-FELLOWSHIP P
What is Odd-Fellowship? Go ask the tear
That sometimes trembles iu the widow's eye,?
That tells of grief for r i;e?the loved and dear -
Whose cherished memory now awakes the sigh,
And flings a shadow o'er the brow's deep calm:
Oh', ask of her what bright angelic power
Poured in her wounded heart allection's balm,
And cheeredjher path iujsorrow ^darkest hour.
Ask her, when fate its cruel shaft had sped,
And her voting hopes had perished in their bloom,
What smiling form could bless e'en then, and shed
A halo of deep glory lound the tomb;?
What good Samaritan, like him of old,
Stood ready to .i3?uage her bitter cry,
When all the world beside, with feelings cold,
Beheld her grief, and passed regardless by.
It is for sale by Henry D. Lpomis, 107 Fulton
! street.
The Farmer's Trkaure: APractku. Treatise on
the Natcre and Valve ok Manures.
The results in this work are founded on actual
experiment, and hence of immediate value to the
Farmer. It is to such works we are to look for
that improvement in Agriculture we need, and
of the extent of which our Farmers have not the
most distant conception. The nature and power
of the soil?the peculiar adaptation of one kind to
a certain grain or vegetable?the means of chang?
ing its character or restoring its wasting powers
arc now vcrv imperfectly known. This reminds
us, by the way, that a part of this work is de?
voted to Agricultural Chemistry, without the
knowledge of which all improvements are the
result of mere chance. A considerable part of it
is devoted also to Productive Farming. Sold by
D. Appleton & Co. 200 Broadway.
O* The November number of " The Present"
contains several excellent articles; among these
are the Views of Commerce and a Review of
Prince's Poems. It pursues its usual independent
and fearless course._
[TT* We have received the New Mirror for
Saturday. It contains a new item in Byron's
life by the Editor, N. P. Willis.
Mt'LBERRY Leak Paper.?In ours of the 31st
ult. we copied an article stating that this Paper was not
strong, aud would only answer fn? ? wU-~ -~??u
brown paper is applied. We have since seen at the office of
Dr. Stebbins, newspapers, pamphlets, cap and letter paper
made of mulberry foliage, of very good quality, Oil one sheet
of which we have both printed and written, and are fully
satisfied that smooth, strong and delicate white and colored
paper has and can be made from mulberry leaves, fit for the
pen or press. [Northampton Courier.
Reward kor the Arrest of young Sa?NDERS,
the FoRCcn,?The reward claimed by different persons
concerned in the nrrest of young Saunders, was yesterday
decided by Ex-Chancellor rvent. as follows; $1500 to Ange?
lina Osbom, the colored girl, with w hom part ol the money
was left in charge by Mrs. Ragge; $1500 to Pomeroy, of
Boston; $500 to Constable Clapp; $1000 to young Jones,
and the balance, $204, to Mrs. Hunter, making iu ill $4794.
Quick Business.?The good steamer Concor
dia arrived at 10J o'clock yesterday morning from Vicks
burg, with2,320 bales of cotton, discharged her cargo, took
iu her up freight aud wood, and left port again at 10 o'clock
last evening. We venture to say that the records of steein
boating cannot show an instance of greater despatch.
[N. O. Bulletin.
O* The Philadelphia Inquirer mentions the
c tse of a woman who was a slave iu Virginia until the age
of 30, when, by the fruits of patient and untiring industry,
she purchased her freedom. She is now between 40 and 50.
H*r husbiud and three children are now slaves, owned by
Bushrod Taylor, Esq., of Winchester, Va., who is willing
to releas-i them on the payment of between eight and nine
hundred dollars. The woman has paid $300 already on their
account, and wants a little more than $500 to procure their
freed.>m. She is an intelligent woman, of g?od character
and habits, and speaks highly of Mr. Taylor. She is now
in Philadelphia, and an appeal is made in her behalf. Of
course it w ill not be in vain.
tTJ* The Courier shouts 1 victory' over the re?
sult of the Senatorial election iu the county of Natt hi
toches. At the Congressional election in July, that portion
of the IVth District gave uearly 600 Loco-Foco majority
Mr. Marshall, the Loeo-Foco candidate for State Senator, is
now elected by 143 majority?nett Whig gain about 450.
Truly Loco-Focoism has cause to be thaukful at baring es?
caped annihilation. Another contest will wrest from the
party a hitherto impregnable stronghold. [N. O. Bee.
[LT The brig Eagle, it is said, will sail to-mor?
row for China, to be engaged in the coasting trade. She is
a tine ship, under the command of Capt. Shermau.
ITT The U. S. steamer Poinsett, Lieut. Sirnms
commanding, arrived here yesterday from Pensacol.
_^_ [N. O. Bulletin.
Sand?" SaRsaparilla.?< lopy of a letter from Norwich,
Conn.?Norwich, May 28. 1813. Messrs. A. B. Sands x Co
Gent?I was, in the mouth ef April, after a run of Lung Fe?
ver, attacked with a swelling Of my limbs, which would en?
large from two to three inches in circumference during the
day, and iubside in the nighr. This was attended with the
most Violent pain, so as to render me unable to .-tand or walk
at times; accompanied with want of apperite. r^Htle^sness, in?
ability to s)< ep, and much constitutional distress. I.! this con?
dition I commenced taking Sand's Sarsaparilla; and after two
days, the pair, and restlessness began to subside, the swellings
ofmy limbs to abate, and after taking thr-e bottles I find the
swelling has disappeared, and the other svmpterns are entirely
removed. I can safely sav that I consider my cure to have
been effected by the Sarsapanlla. I am now able to labor with?
out any particular fatigue. A. S. Parrish.
r-or conclusive evideuce of Us superior value ami efficacy
see certificates published iu this and other city papers.
Prepared and sold at wholesale and retail, and for exporta?
tion, by A. B. SANDS it CO., Druggists, (Gtanite Build?
ings,' corner of Broadway and Clurnbers stteer. Sold alio
by A. B. k D. SANDS. 79 Fulton, corner of Gold-street;
and at 77 East Broadway, corner of Market-street. Price, SI
per bottle;?six bottles for 85.
To the Friends of Mr. Clay.
Like and Speeches ok Henry Clay.?The publish?
ers of this work are now prepared to execute orders to any
extent. The work is comprised in two octavo volumes, con?
taining in the whole upwards of 1,100 pages, and is illus?
trated by a splendid steel Portiait of Mr. Clav, a View of
bis Birth place iu Virginia, and a Fac Simile of one of his
letters?the whole for One Dollar ! It is believed to be the
cheapest w ork ever published in America. These Speeches
form an important portiou of the History of our Country for
the last thirty years, and are interesting to all classes of
readers, without reference to politics.
PRICES? Well done up in strong flexible covers, in
'he French style:
Single copy, 2 vols. octavo, upwards of 1100 pages.. .$1 00
Twelve copies for. 10 00
Twenty-five copies for. "'20 00
One hundred copies for.' * SO 00
Bound with Cloth Backs ?fc Gilt Lettering.
Single copy.$1 05
Twelve copies for. * 12 M
Twenty-five copies for. . *24 00
One hundred copies for. ' 9^ ?q
No::e senton commission. TermsCaiH. Orders most be
addressed to GREELEY Sr. McELRATH. New-Vork.
ry Sargent's L.ife of Clay for sale at this office.
Thirty copies for SI; one hundred copies for S3. Postage to
any part of the United States only u cents. Copies in wrap?
pers ready for mailing as above. Price | for single copies 6*
cexts. o2
'rnrnrTTrrrinr^^
CITY I N T E L L,IG E NC E
Tut-KsjAY, November 16
Court Calendar.?Friday.... Ciacm-*
Coi.-rt.-No*. UK), 106. 96, 106,114,91. 101* 43 i0\ <J
ill. UO, 90, 82, 89, 46. 115 to \2o inclume, 1C9, io4 ^f.'
L . S. District Court.?Before Judge Betts.
The I mted States r$. Adams fit Co?This case ,apc?.
ant as testing the right of iodriduals to . airy leu>n fruR
.-tie place to another. The action u to recoTei $100, b-i0?
the penalty imposed by the act of 1S25 for en.-)ing two let
ten, or S.iU for each Messrs. Adam* wer? charged general'.
If with carrying letters in pick ages, knowing ih* packsg,,
to contain such, iud also that letters were carried by their
agents, Messrs. Fisher and Stevens, in the steamboat New
Haven, and that defendants procured such to be Joue, which
t it is contended brings them w ithin the statute The sc;ioa
was entered by older of the I*. S. (Jovernment at Washing
ton to test the right of the Express Lines, m particular, car!
ryiug letters, the revenue of the Post Office, it is said, being
much uijured by them. Messrs Adams it Co. deny having
knowingly earned any Irtttrs, and contend that they have a
right to cany packages without inquiring as to tbeir contents.
They ilso aver that they ga\e positiv? directions to their
agents not to carry letters, when they knew ihem to be such.
A number of witnesses were exauiiued, some of whom testi?
fied \o receiving letters with Adams Sc Co.'* Express Line''
stamped on them, and thu they paid the messenger lejs thin
Tos: office price, but this, the counsel fox defendant con
tend-d not to have been shewn i> the act of bis clients.
Thr court charged that the law of lS-25 was made to pr?-.
vent a continuance of the system then in use of vessels and
stages having a box in which letters w ere deposited by the
public for the place of destination. The schedule alludes to
vessels aud stages, and au ameudmeut in 1S-7. added hone or
foot posts -the court does not consider the law to apply to
passengers or other, persons carrying letters on their persons
or in their trunks. Congress, if it saw fit, might pass a law
prohibiting auy person whatevei carrying such, as it pro?
hibits contraband go->ds, but ii has seen the operation of this
new system of expresses which has sprung up, and not taken
my steps iu relation to it. If Messrs. Adams Sc Co employ
,d a vehicle (.whether called ':ar, or Crete, or anv thing elje)
on a pest road, or watercourse considered a post load, snd
mad.- a business of such, know ingly carrying letters for hire
j they are liable?but if they themselves or their agents
i merely carried letters on their persons?or carried them in
packages w ithout know ing the contents of such p^rkaen
they are not liable. Neither are the defendants liable forth*
act' of then agents if those acts weie committed Contrary
to their directions. The jury will return n sealed verdict
this forenoon.
Superior Court?Before Judge Oakley._
Samuel Moody vs. Sun Insurance Co.?Action to rt-corar
for total loss ou the ship Souriah, which was strvnded on
Breton Island, i.ear the entrance of the Mississippi, but
which was got oil" by wreckers, and carried into Neu Or?
leans. This case was referred to a jury a day or two since
and concluded yesterday. $10,000 was insured on the> ship,
$6009 of which was at the otlice of defendants. Wrdict far
plaintiff in full amount claimed.
Court of Sessions.?Before the Recorder and
Alderman Emmons and Nash.
Jonas B. Phillips, Esq. District Attorney ad interim.
Nolle Proseq.1 i.?In the case of Charles Scoiield, in?
dicted for an assault and battery w ith intent to kill Hu^h
McDermott, (when it was only a slight assiult and batter))
a nolle prosequi was entered.
Trial for Grand L ircCNY,?William Sullivau was
tried for grand larceny, stealing boots aud :ihoes from store
of Isaac Phillips, 108 Uivisiou-street. The prisoner was a
relation of complaiuaut and a short rime in his employ, but
was discharged before the theft. Part of the property was
recovered, by prisoner stating where he had pledged them. -
The jury found him guilty, aud he was sentenced to the State
Prison for 3 years.
Plea ok Guilty.?James B. Martin pleaded guilty to an
indictment for assault and battery on Lewis Peck. Plea re?
ceived and recorded, and sentence suspended until the termi?
nation of the civil suit.
Another.?William S. Sullivan, convicted aj above,
pleaded guilty 10 auo'.her grand larceny, m stealing a trunk,
clothing aud jewelry, worth $53 50, from the Ferry house ?t
the foot of Courtlandt-street, the property of Miss Vandet
voort. Sentenced to the State Prison for 2 years ?> months,
which, with the other sentence, will keep him in the State
Prison years. He had been in the Philadelphia Penitentia?
ry and was patdoued out.
The Grand Jury came into court with a number of bills
.if indictment, and retired to resume their business.
" Assault and Battery.?William M. aud Francis Sayre,
impleaded with William I). Day. vwre tried for an assault
aud battcrv on Robert H. Shannou, of 159 Henry-Street, oil
the27th ruly last. Complainant went'to the store of Mr.
Gciggs, 1 It1 Murray-street, as special deputy, to serve an at?
tachment for contempt (issued by the Court of Chancery.)
against William B. Day. After a long time spent in the
?tAro waiting fi?r hail, tW? store ?I Mr. ?riugS was dosed,
aud complainant went with Day to see a Mr. Van Nostraud
to become bail. Not finding him, Day ran to get on the Fer?
ry boat, and was caught by Shannon on the platform, a few
feet from the boat, when Day was pushed on the boat by
Sayre and Griggs from behind, and Shannon was also push?
ed ou board the boat holding on, when, he deposed, he was
seized by Sayre who pulled him backwards while Day held
him down, and he was detained on board until ihe boat start
edYilf, and carried them all over 10 Jersey City, viher? Day
escaped, the complainant coming back in the next boat. Mr.
(iriggs was concerned only in assisting to push Shannon on
... ird the boat ns he had hold of Day. Shannon, Sayre aud
Day ire ill members of the bar. The prosecution rested.?
The c ise will he concluded on Friday.
The court then adjourned to ii o'clock on Friday.
Police Office.?Sundry Thefts.?James
Br.idy oid Patrick McKeon werearrested lor stealiug a sil?
ver watch, from O'Connor in f'r..s> sr.
Thomas Kellv, i boy, whs arrested for stealing india rub?
ber shoes from Thorn ts II. Day.
William Brown W is arrested for stealing a lar^'e cheese.
Jam.-s Smith, colored man, was seni to prison for stealing
a guit.o from George Hays, No. 69 Mercer it.
Stealing from a pellow hoarder.?Thomas Barren
was arrested I y officer Joseph, for stealing a promissory note
for $15 98, and a counterfeit $5, from the trunk of Djniel
VV.Rockwell,a fellow boarder with himself at John Jilli
land's, No - J11 Sixteenth street. He was sent to prison
to answer.
S t ra Li no Lf.au Pier:.?William D?lau was arrf-ted for
stealing Irad pipe from the store of Robert Walter, No. '296
Broad way,
Kohbinv, a Coal Office ?Two men named Jas. Clark
ind Francis Brown, went into the office of the coal raid of
Messrs. H. J. & A. Ockerhausen, 377 Water street, under
the pretence of buying coal, and while one was talking about
rlir- [nice, quality, StC. the other broke open the desk, Stole
$42 30 in bills; gold and silver and both fled They wer?
anestrd and committed to prison.
More About Connel's MAok al Pain Extractor?
This Salve is domic wonders, and one half of the cures and
benefits that come duly to our notice cannot be published.
But we think t!,.,t what already ha- been given here to the
New-York public, should impress upon ev.rv family th<*
actual necessity of always keeping this salve in trw house,
as a little girl's (U9 Washington-street) life was saved on the
3d of this month by this salve, from a dreadful scald; and we
ask .ill who do uot fully believe k. to go there uid se?- The
child end its mother. A mother w ill tell you what you mast
b?lieve. Also in Newark w as a child's life, in case of bam,
saved by it last week.
Mr. John Lyons. Carman, who tides lor
Wm McCormick, Eso , Auction and Commission Merchant,
1 No. 18 < ourtland-street, had his thumb badly bitten by bis
horse, so that the nail ind ball of the rhumb werespUlopra.
Trie r un from it was dreadful, extending through the wrote
. system: and he thought he diuuld have to give up vs'.rk.wivn
he w.-nt in to Messrs. Comstoek fit Co.V. 21 Courdand-stre?i
and applied Cosnkl's Magical Pain Kitkact-r. ami id
; Ihre-minutes the rain entirely ceased, the mflammarion was
: all allayed,and no inconvenience was felt at all trom if. wnea
at the time he fust put it on.the flesh began to crow black, ina
! the firstj u'nt very sore ami stitt". so that he could not bear to
bend or touch it. I think this salve saved me one week s wora,
or at least nothing could h ive relieved so instantaneously, rjj
? invites all who arc any way sceptical to call on him at 18
Courtland-street. as he will be pleased to show them "is
? thumb, and rell them personally o! its magic effect.
', NeW'York, August 10th, 1613.
Th .- itnly real family salve is counterfeited, and the name of
Comstoek St Co. must be found, or it is not genuine; jtisMB*
j possible to le geiiuiue without their fac. simile signatuie.
Does it yet require a farther proof to prove to every mau.
i woma i and child, the great virtues of this Cbmponndl Ifw<
j we invite the sceptical, and we will refer you to hundreds i?
i this City and in every part of the country who have been
! cured by this salve, wh-n all else had failed. It is the saow
! article that used to be called Dalley's. but some plates haws*
i been stolen by a injured scoundrel, the counterfeit might ap
! peir i.. the genuine dress, therefore. Messrs. C. St Co. chature?
I the name to protect the public from deception, and reduced
: the p:icejUstoue half? 50 CENTS?and we wdl not charge
e\ei, ihati if rtnv 0,?. usinK it for any outward ache orading i?
J not pleased with it. and says that it is not the greatest Corn
1 pound ever known. Ou all the new, the signature of Com
j stock St Co. must be found ou the (steel plate) engraved
! wrapper. To be found only ar 21 Courdand-itreet; George
Well., Comstoek It Co.; 2 North Fifth street, Ph?edelpn'*;
' Comstoek St Kois, 52 Cornhill,Boston; and 320 Broad-street,
New rk.
j SF.r.ai.\t;'a Cordial, is soli"?T No. 0 Murray st o3lflH
The Silk Culture iu the United States:
Embracing COMPLETE ACCOUNTS of th? L???
and most Approved Modes ot Hatching. ^ariBg ?d heelinj.
the SILK-WORtM, Managing a COCOONERY,J^hS
Spin.g and Manafactuiing the SILK, .Vc. Sic. Stc,
briet Historical Sketches ol th- Ssilk Busine.s. N^a/Vc^m
tory f the Silk-Worm, the Mulb-rrv. St.:.;c , ? ? lrom
; themost Approved and^Reliable Works, illustrated by n?
' merous Fnitravings of Machinery and Pioc^ses. lo wnicg
U adued B L YD EN B U KUH'S MANUAL OF THE SILK
CULTURE. Statistics ot Silk Inverts, Stc. ice.
Price f*r single copies 25 cents; live copies lor SI- .
This work will form No. VI. of the Tribune Series qffl**
ful Books for the People. GKEELE Y at McELRATH.
Thbuae Building?, New-i orit,