2d. Surety of the pcae^ is demandable of right, by
any iudividual who thinks nimself in danger of bodily
hurt, and will make the necessary oaths ; but this
principle has not been applied to surety for good be*
haviour—I will not say, that there are no circum
ces, in which surety for good behaviour ought to be
exacted in cases of libels, before convinction ; on
the contrary, 1 have no doubt but there are occasi
ons, on which it may be proper and necessary to in
sist on it. But 1 am of opinion tlfnt it will be most
agreeable to the spirit of our Constitution, and most
conducive to the suppression of libels, to adopt it as a
general rule, not to demand surety for good behavi
our before conviction. Under these impressions I
must discharge the defendant, on his entering into a
recognizance for his appearance at the next mayor’s
court.
From the London Courier—June 26.
THE NEW MINISTERS.
WHAT HAVE THEY DONE?
It is surely now high time to ask the question ? The
publick who have been for some months amused with
promises and professions will do welltopause and en
quire how these professions have been fulfilled, and
those promises performed. What; have the new
Ministers done ? The question we know will stag
ger the ministers themselves as well as the publick.
What have they done? These mighty boasters,
these magnificent professors, these lovers of the con
stitution, these economists) these ministers, who
concentrate all the talents, and all the wisdom, and
all the patriotism, and all the consequence of the
country ?
Their attachment to the constitution ! Are we to
look for the proof of it in the appointment of the
chief justice of the king’s bench to a seat in the cabi
net, thus mixing the judicial and executive au
thorities, and bestowing power without responsi
bility ?
I neir vigour :—Are we to seek lor it in the man
ner in which they have changed the constitution of
the army?—the vigour that is shewn in destroying
and pulling down.
Their justice !—was it evinced in immediately dis
placing admiral Cornwallis from the command of the
channel fleet, without any publick testimony of re
gard or recompense ? In not only refraining from
all publick thanks to Sir Home Popham and Sir Da
vid Baird ; but if report speak true, in recalling the
former and revoking all the appointments he has
made at the Cape ?
Their economy ! are we to look for it in their cre
ation of new places ; in their plans of military go
vernment— in their grants of extravagant sinecures
to such men as Mr. Cavendish Br.alshaw—m their
pensions to judges convicted of libels ?
1 heir experience in legislation !—are we to find as
conspicuous proofs of it in the Chelsea allowance
and other bills, brought in since they have been in
power ?
1 heir judgment and steadiness !—Do you mean to
refer us for proofs to the manner in which they have
selected objects of taxation and afterwards abandon
ed them—to the iron and brewing taxes ?
1 heir knowledge ot the true interests of our com
merce and shipping 1—shall we discover it in that
precious measure, the American intercourse bill,
which has alarmed live shipping interest throughout
the whole kingdom ?
1 heir love of full and ample discussion !— Are we
to seek for it in the manner in which they introduced
the plan for changing the constitution of the army ?
a plan introduced in the shape of a clause in a bill:
by which four stages of debate were cut off at “ one
full swoop ami less discussion allowed than is
permitted to the commonest Turnpike or Caii.,1
Is not this what the new ministers have done ? Is
not this the manner in which they have justified their
claim to the possession of all the talents, all the ex
perience, all the judgment of the country ? Is not
this the manner in winch they have justified the con
fidence of the credulous people who thanked them
before they had done any other act, except that of
accepting the places they had been so long ambitious
of ?
i hey have clone nothing corresponding with p.nv
one of their promTes nr professions—nothing that
betrays vigour (their conduct to Prussia excepted)
nhiilty, or skill—nothing that justifies their arrogant
claims to the possession of all the talents, all the ex
perience, and all the judgment of the country. The
talent to govern a nation is very different from that
■which enables a man to be a brawler and fa,lions in
opposite n.—Because they invariably complained of
th« administration of Mr.’Pitt, the publtCK. inconsi
derately believed that they could govern the country
better.—Mr. Fox has succeeded Mr. Pitt, and how
Is our situation improved? Excellent and illustrious
statesman 1 Wlnt tributes are thy successors daily
paying to thy trancendent talents ! What additional
motives does their conduct furnish hourly for deuior
ng thy death ! Let the publick follow the track of
these new ministers from the commencement of the
present session of parliament-Neier, we will
venture to say, was such a system of clumsy legisla
tion seen—what vacillation in their financial system !
—what incoiisiderateness in proposing taxes ! what
levity in abandoning them !—What ignorance of the
details of business ! what procrastination !—Yet
such is the administration which the people were de
sired to fall down and worship—such are the minis
ters who sounded forth their own praises from one
end of the kingdom to the other, as concentrating
all the abilities, all the eloquence, all the weight,
all the character, and all the consequence of the
country !
London, June 26.
DELICATE INVESTIGATION.
Reports of the greatest delicacy and importance
with respect to a lady of very high rank, have been
for some time in circulation, and have formed al
most exclusively the subject of conversation. Of
the nature of those reports, we have for some time
been informed, but we did not think it becoming to
allude to them ; and we should still have refrained
from doing it, had not every other paper followed a
different line of conduct. But were we longer to de
cline noticing these reports, we might be suspected
of a sinister motive for our silence. What the o
ther papers have published upon the subject, win be
found in a subsequent part of this article. What
they may hereafter communicate, we slull perhaps,
continue to publish. But if our readers expect to
receive any original information from us, they will
be disappointed. It is a subject too inconsiderately
and hastily brought forward—we could have wished
it had not been brought forward at all, or at least till
the investigation, which is stated to be going on had
been completed, and an official report drawn up.
Should any such report be drawn up, we shall perl
h ips be able to communicate it to the public the first
though we have purposely been last to notice tlte ru-’
mours that have been in circulation Courier.
“ On Friday and Saturday last, we thought it our
duty to allude m the gentlest manner in our power to
circumstances of the most delicate and important
nature, which we know to be passing in a high quar
ter, and which, from being wantonly and widely
made the topic of conversation, should he upon some
probable or well ascertained grounds. VVImt we
have ventured, under these impressions, to state to
the public, has drawn foitU information and cxplj*.
hatJons frcni persons, respecting wltose Correct
knowledge of the facts connected with these circuit!
stances, and the unimpeachable integrity and honour
of whose character we cannot entertain the slightest
suspicion. Upon such authority we are enabled to
state the follow ing particulars sl-Mof - than three
weeks ago a commission was appointed by order of
his in jesty, to investigate and ascertain the nature
I ot ■ he i umours ih.it have lately been sent abroad re
spe ting the conduct of a ladv, not more conspicu
ous trom her exalted rank, than from her various
virtues. 1 he origin ot these rumours has been traced
[ to a certain Baronet and upon his ladj, whose as
set tions we shall at present forbear making any ob
servation, as perhaps only a few days may elapse be.
tore a regular official Import m ly be made bv the
commission, to wnich we have already alluded.'How
respectably that commission is composed, will be
le t, when we state, that the following high charac
ters are among the members of it, viz :
“ The lord Chancellor, lord Spencer, lord Ellen
b r aigli, lord Moira, and lord Orenvil.e.
i injurious insinuations to which we have all
along alluded, were first communicated to the illus
trious personage whom they must be supposed most
nearly to concern ; but he disdained paying the least
attention to them, until, upon being again urged, he
lought it his duty to consult a person, from whose
legal knowledge, and sincere and enlightened friend
ship, it was natural to expect the soundest advice.
It was advised by that high and reverend character
yloicl Ihurluw.) that the matter should be immedi
ate y put in a train of investigation, as what more
neaily conc erned the essential interests of the state,
than the feeling of any individual ; and in conse
quence ot th t advice, the matter was referred to
t ic \eiy highest and moat illustrious personage in
the state, who immediately ordered the appointment
ot the above commission.
‘1 he rt suit ot all the enquiries we have obtain
ed from the most respectable channels, is, that
throughout die wlmje of this delicate business, a cer
tain illustrious personage has behaved with the
strictest docorum, and with an anxiety that every
possible means may be token to assert the innocent
and vindicate the character of the exalted and ami
able person upon whose purity of conduct such foul
i and unprovoked attempts hae been made, to cast
the vilest and most unfounded aspersions. We were
anxious to nieet the curiosity of the public by an
nouncing these pai ticulars ; we shall fee! still happi
er when vveare enabled (which must be soon) to re
move every uneasy impression they cannot fail to la
hour under, respecting a subject which so naturally
conies home to every fee'ing, generous, and loyal
mind, 1 he opinion of the commissioners is, we be
lieve already accurately ascertained : and their for
mal report is very shortly to lie made.
“ The il.u; t inus lady alluded to received the first
intimation of the above proceedings from a person of
high rank, who in the most delicate manner opened
the affiir to her, and observed, that her servants
weie likely to be called upon to state what they'
knew. 1 lie lady, with that high spirit which belongs
to exalted r mk, and in all the dignity of conscious
innocence, “ I shall insist on an investigation ; and,
least it should be imagined I might tamper with my
servants. I will discharge them all immediately.”_
This in ignammous conduct speaks more than a vo
lume of panegyi# could do."—Mornintf Post of
ye^tfrr/ay,
“We stated on Saturday, that a most delicate and
important investigation had taken place under the
highest authority. It is an enquiry, still pending, in
which the honour of a distinguished individud, anti
the welfare of the state, are inseparably implicated!
“ Lady 1)—oi—s, it appeas some short time
since, made so solemn, and circumstantial a declara
u n, respecting die conduct of that distinguished in
dividu.il, as to render it incumbent on an illustrious
personage, under the advice Bf his o unci), to lay the
several allegations before Ins-; but this was
(.one without comment or observation on his part*
C n recciv ing the statement, his — ■ appointed
a secret committee of his privy council to proceed to
an investigation of the charge without delay. The
committee was composed of the lord Chancellor,
lord F.llenhorough, carl Spencer, lord Grenville.
I.adyl)—gl—s has appeared personally before the
committee, and was examined on oath. His royal
highness die duke of Kent went down speciallv to
inform the* accused of the nature and extent of the
charge, and to notify, that six female domestics were
l-quired to appear before the secret committee.
1 his immediately took place, when tliev were seve
i illy examined upon oath. The examination, it is
understood, are not yet finally closed.
It would be highly indecorous to hazard a con
jectuie on the probable event of this serious enquiry.
It is sufficient at present to be known, that it is rou
tined to honourable and dignified characters, from
whom the paolic will in due time derive a report,
consonant to the pure principles of deliberative jus
tice. J
in inc giounoiess rumours spreading on this oc
casmu, the name of an illustrious personage has
, en introduced in all the varying ways that might
best favour the several objects of misrepresentation :
hut | arty malevolence will, with common calumny
l ist all pretence for invective, when it is known that
t.ie enquiry derives its authority from the highest
source, nd that the illustrious personage, so far
from being either prosecutor or accuser, has not
even been a complainant m the cause.’’—Afcrnimr
litruUl of yesterday, °
’ , I,e!' P»>da vrsit to Mrs. Windham (the
’ secretary of Stale) at her house in Pall
j M ill, about 8 o’clock yesterday evening. This visit
to the house of a cabinet minister has excited much
attention. It is a proof that not the slightest distrust
lhc cabinet is entertained upon the case, and that
her R. H. is confident of having done nothing that
coin possibly call for any proceeding on the part of
ot government, further than the present solemn in
quiry, which was highly desirable, and as highly de
sired by her, for'the purpose of shewing the total
falsehood of the Calumnv, and those subsequent
proceedings for the punishment of the calumniators,
which will become an indispensable duty upon the
acquittal. It may perhaps he a gratification to the
curiosity of some to stale, that her R. H« passed in
to the Park at the Horse-Guards, and proceeded
along by the rear of Carlton House and St. James’s,
out at the Stable-yard, which is within a few doors
of Carlton-IIouse.”—Morning Post of this day,
“ is confidently asserted, th it a great ladv, some
time before the last birth-day applied to an illustri
ous personage for apartments to dress at his house in
town, in order to attend the court held on that occa
sion , but being refused, she gave that circuiftstauce
as an excuse for her non-attendance at court. It is
farther added, that a demand being made made of
the cause of this refusal, it was allcdged, in reply,
tliut circumst<incc.s of «tn uiiriccouiitcible iiuturc hnv*
ing of late occurred in the conduct of the party, she
must recur to their recollection .,s s.n excuse for not
being allowed to reside in the house of the supposed ag
[ grieved and injured person to whom we have alluded.
l* It is next stated that the - , to whom this com
plaint was made, immediately suggested tiie neces
sity of an investigation into the impropriety, which
was directly assented to by both parties ; autl four ot
very first characters in the kingdom, whether with
respect to name, rani;, or situation, were selected to
form a committee of enquiry into this most delicate
affair.—The noble persons named are-reported to be
die Lord Chancellor, Lord Llkuborough, Lord Spen
cer, audLord Grenville. - *
“Here we believe the matter rests; and although
many reports-are added as to the result of this scru
tjny, yet all is,still at issue : nay, if we be well in
formed, the strongest reluctance has arisen tn some
ot the characters to whnm the investigation has been
submitted, to be concerned in so unpleasant a task.
Such are the grounds of the information which we
have received.”— Oracle of this day.
We have expressed our determination not to deli
ver any Opinion ourselves upon the delicate subject
which has for some time occupied the publick atten
tion, and ftmrted almost exclusively the subject of
conversation. But we must condemn the tone and
manner in which some of our cotemporaries havetu
ken up the business. We remain firmly of opinion,
that it would have been more delicate even to the il
lustrious personage in question, to have refrained
from making the afF-ir the subject of newspaper dis
cussion till the official investigation, now going on,,
had been concluded. But as none of the particulars
of that investigation have yet transpired, as nothing
has yeta Suroeda more decisive form than that of ru
mour, surely that violence of tone and language, and
that decisive style and manner which some of our co
temporaries have used, might have been dispensed
with.
. Wefeel no doubt ourselves of the innocenceof the
illustrious personage—she has conducted herself so
“ c,ear 'n her great office.” But on her part we
must deprecate any attempt to load, in the first in
stance, the persons accusing her, with the severest
invectives, before any thing has been known with
certainty, or promulgated officially.
It will look like an attempt to overawe and intimi
date them. Nothing injures a cause more than the
indiscreet zeal of its supporters. The beauty and
blessing of our constitution is, that the lowest may
prefer an accusation against the highest, and be cer
tain of a fair, full, and impartial investigation. Let
the accusers he heard with calmness and with impar
tiality. Let us .reserve our indignation till the re
sult is known—it will not be less severe and dreadful
by being deferred. The enquiry is before men of
honour, in whom the accused, the accusers, and the
people, may repose perfect confidence. We repeat,
that it is on the part of the illustrious personage her
self that we deprecate all premature violence and
intemperance. Her best friends will be those who
;ire 1°*' the most ample and dispassionate investiga
tion. Q
One word more before we conclude.—The hus
band of the illustrious personage has done nothing
more than follow the conduct that has been prescrib
ed to him—it was not left to his choice—it was im
K!se<? uPon him as a duty. We shall say no more,
i he invesjtgntion will soon be over, and we trust,
wdl be communicated to the publick without delav.
1 he subject is one of such high and delicate import
ance that the publick should be left as short a time
as possible a prey to vague rumours and conjecture,.
Courier.
It is believe'! that some requisition has been made
to Prussia on the part of Franc e to evacuate H ino
ver* Buonaparte has declared that Hanover wasnof
to he considered as the equivalent for the surrender
, Anspach. It is said, that he lias proposed to in
demnify Prussia for the cession of Anspach by giving
her a district in the northern part of Franconia. In
order to enlarge and strengthen the power of Hol
land, and to reconcile the Drt h to the new govern
ment by the prospect "fa greater extension of com
merce, Buonaparte is said to have it in contempla
| turn to add Hanover to the kingdom of Holland, and
to give it, besides, the command of the mouths nt the
Fans, V\ eser, and the F.Ibe. It has been industri
ously circulated in Holland, that Buonaparte lias
| great designs and intentions witli respect to the new
kingdom, and that he will make every effirt to res
tore the Dutch to their antient commend d opulence
and naval power. But Prussia, after having violated
j every principle of good faith to this country, in oc
cupying Hanover, will not, it is suppo ed, easily re
! ItnqnUhit: and we shall not be surprised to find
[ 3 requisition on the part ot France to evacuate it,
git e rise to a war between Prussia and France, in
| u ’"dr the former will solicit support from the very
powers with which she is now at war.
. ^ friends of lord Melville in F,dinburgh, on hear
ing of his acquittal, proposed to have an illuminati
on. As the necessary effect of that measure must
have been to produce a contest between those who
illuminated and those who did not, consequently a
breach of the peace must have been inevitable. The
Solicitor general warned the magistrates not to coun
tenance a proceeding so manifestly tending to a riot.
On this the lord Provost and Sheriff issued a Procla
mation. to that effect. Many houses in the suburbs
were, however, brilliantly illuminated. Some of
them had the words Virtue Triumphant, and others
Meb die and Innocence beautifully displayed.
The magistrates and town councils of Edinburgh,
have voted a congratulatory address to lord Melville
on bis acquittal, which concludes with this sentence.
11 f ^'e splendour of your talents has been equalled
by the cleauess of your hands, and the purity of
your principles.”
LORD MELVILLE.
.. , . . _ Edinburgh, June 18.
Monday the Lord Provost, Magistrates, arid cmin
cil, unanimously voted an address to Lord Viscount
Melville, on his acquittal, by a sentence of the house
ot Peers ; and the Lord provost was requested to
sign and transmit it, which was accordingly done.
The convenery of the incorporated trades of Edin
burgh have also unanimously voted a congratulatory
address to his Lordship. '
Many houses in the city, suburbs, and vicinity of
Edinburgh, were last night brilliantly illuminated, in
celebration oi Lord Melville’s acquittal. Some of
them had the words Melville and Innocence beauti
fully displayed.
_ Greenock, June 19.
On 1 uesday there was a grand entertainment at
the 1 ontine on account of the acquittal of Lord Vis
count Melville. The company was numerous and
respectable, Alexander Dunlfp, Esq. one of the
magistrates, in the chair. After a very appropriate
speech by the chairman, the health of his Lordship
was drank, with three times three cheers, with the
most rapturous applause. The evening was spent
with that happiness so joyous an occasion inspired.
■ Glasgow, June 19.
On Monday and Tuesday a great number of par
ties met in the different taverns in town to comme
morate the acquittal of Lord Melvilie. On Tuesday
evening an effigy was carried throngh the streets of
the city, and at the Cross, about half p?st eleven
o’clock, after many a kick and cuff, tumbled, head
| foremost, into a burning /toner cask, amidst the re
peated huzzas of the multitude. The East side of the
Barracks, occupied by the second battalion of the 71st
regiment, Hightanders, was m the evening, illumi
nated by the soldiers.
One of the numerous entertainments given in this
city, in celebration of Lord Melville's acquittal, con
isted wholly of Scotch dishes, such as sheefiJtrads
luggies, oat-cakes and barley scons* W hite bread
and London Porter were excluded by the unanimous
resolution of the company. This party had a trans
parency in one of their windows, of a figure in the
garb of a Highland soldier, with the emblem of jus
tice suspeuded over his head, and the motto, “ Lore
Melville acquitted—-hisfriends rejoice.”
From various Other parte of Scotland, wc hare ac
founts of the ghnerat satisfaction manifested r* the
arrival, f the intelligence of ford Melville's acqiitul, ‘ f
At Dundee it was celebrated by the ringing of bells. k *
discharges of mu poetry, a Urge bonfire in the era- i.
tre of the High*strc6t« nod all the other proceedings
accompanyirg a public rejoicing. At Haddington
and its vicinity it was celebrated by illumination*
and other expressions of the popular satisfaction.
Gazette Aiunne Memoranda.
--- ARRIVED.
. Ship Alexander, King, 60 days from Liverpool
Salt and Dry Goods, John & YY. Southgate—Left
there O/iifi < Leo i d is, IVPKenzie, for Ale<aR
dria, to sail 5th July ; Industry, Wright, for City
Point, the 12th of July ; sch’r Diana Talbot, Max
well, for Madeira, to sail the first fair wind.—
Uailei in company with the ship fame, for Boston ;
barque Mars, tor Newburyport; and brig Calypso,
Vickery, for Traeriffe.—S/iokr July 5. in lat. 49, 30,
long. 1C, ship United States, Nelson, from Chat es
ton for Bremen, out 31 days—5th. lat. 48, long. 22,
brig -, Samuel Shaw, of and from P.utlanl for
Liverpool, out 20 days— 7th, lat. 46, 50, long. 22. 10,
ship Camilla, of and from Philadelphia, for Cork and
a market, nut 23days'—25th, lat. 44. 44, long. 41,
ship Ami, Curran, of and from Norfolk, out 15
days—27th. in lat. 43, 30, long. 43, ship Vigil nt. of
and from New-York, out 14 days—30th, in lat. 42,48,
long. 45, ship Host n, ’1 • It, of Boston, from l.iver*
pool for Baltimore, out 25 d iys—Aug. 10,1 it; 38, 30,
long. 60, brig Kentucky, Cranston, of and from Phi
ladelphia for Rotterdam, out 8 days—18th, in lat.
38,15, long. 70, ship Prosperity, of and for Philadel
phia, 32 days fi-t-m Isle of May. .*
A brig belonging to this port arrived at Hull from
Rotterdam the 29th of June.
1 he ship W itliam P. Johnson, . ■ . from this port
for Rotterdam, was spoke on the 18th July, in lat.
41, 30, long. 67.
Several of the ships which went to sea on Sunday,
have returned to Hampton Roads.
CUS rOM-Hf)USE—Entered.
Ship Alexander, King, Liverpool,
Cleared.
Ship Hazen. Henry, Glasgow.
Bt g Little VV i11i.im, Connell, J . at.lira.
Sell r Carlton, J 'lms< n, Barbados.
Margaret K. Bailey, Riley, Tob,|>.
Eti.erptize, Fiuftugh, Alexandria.
Gould’s Packet will sail
more on THURSDAY next.
for Balti
Aug. 25.
Gray’s Packet wnl siail for Balti
more on FRID \Y.
Aug. 27.
AOTICF.
A Court-Martial will be held at seven
» Clock in the afternoon o Kr.day, the *VMh i> »t at tlw Fit
change Coif e House, or the assessment of and «u
4Uiry hito the delii.qu^ncies of the i roup.
by order 6f the Captain,
Samuel Roane,
Second Lieut, of the Norfolk 1 ronu of Cavalry*
Augu 127._2 n47
FALL GOODSl "
The Subscribers have received by the Ship Alexander, Capt*
King, from Liverpool,
A part of their FALL GOODS,
and are 1.1 Ytailv expectation of receiving the balance of (heir
assortment per the tirst arrivals from London and Ldvcryoot.
Richard & Jno. A aylor.
August 27. lm ',,5
For Freight or Charter,
Ship ALEXANDER,
Miles King, master, cun be read j to receive
a CJ g ) in ten days-For Sale,
12,0JO bush. Liverpool stoved SALT,
30 Crates of well assorted CROCChKY WAKE.
Also—'\n extensive a sortmeutof
•FALL goods,
Which will be disposetLol on low terms, for Cash.
J. & W, Southgate.
August 27. tf i 6
FOR SALE,
430 Shares MARINE STOCK,
For Cash.—Enquire of the Editor of this Paper,
August 2b_ If ]i3
Lott Yetlerclfty,
The KEY of an Iron Chest.
A rewa d of TWO DOLLARS will be given to any pen*
son who duds, and will deliver it at the Office of the Pub. ctf
Li di r Aug. SO. If ^ no
FOR SALE—Afoot,
302 Barrels, 26‘ halt do. New Superfine
FLOUR,
. Gu'.lego’s Brands*
James Herron.
August 25._ 3 in r
IVe have for SALE, on lovt)
18 Pipes, 1 London particul ar
" S7S£i Madeira WINE,
A Cargo of lie of May SALT,
GOO Sack* Liverpool strived do.
20 Hothead* low laud TOBACCO.
J* & W. Southgate*
August 16. tf sr
Now Landing on our Whaif, from the Schooner Catharine
Shepherd, Cant. Webb, fr6m Antigua,
50 Puncheons fine flavoured RUM,
For Sale on liberal credit, by
Conway £s? F. Whittle.
J'dv 25. ttei-- 19
FOR RENT,
A HOUSE in Main-Street at present
in the occupancy of Mr. George Davhleld; possession mar
be had on the second day of September neat. Applv to *
James Tucker.
August gg. ,8t 10y
FOR SALE, ~*
The LOT and HOUSES,
whereon John Hamilton, Esq the British Consul resides ;ot»
it are a three story Dwelling-House, an Office, a Kitchen
and other houses necessary for family use—a Well of soqi
Water newly fitted, and a Garden lately parted ip, a Ware
house and Cellar under it, the remains of a Wharf which
will make a good foundation to build on. With all the privi
leges of lots situated on the river of ext-nefing a wharf— Alto
two hundred and seventy-one and half acres of well ti-nbetS I 'I
ed Land, with a good Fishery on Willoughby's Bav, takirt* - 2ft’
hi the mouth and part of Mason's Creek, where the best ea v
Fish and Oysters can be conveniently taken —Also, a Lot
in Srnithfie d, between Mr. Purdie't and Cape. ToddV lots. X '
For terms apply to
Thomas Net too.
August 1. tf
" " *
tV'*
ANCHOVIES,
the gallon—For SALE by t
- Job* (W
August Ue tf h t
-
. ’*:*■