Bo*to», June 39.
’LATEST FROM LISBON.
— By >he«rrt»alyfitrnhiy, of the brig Fnvoumte,
•hcey. V d*y» from Lisbou,we have been favoured
with peperi of that city 4B the 16t& May. They
■peak favourably of the state of the iomtnnett En
glish and Portuguese troop*—that tfytf .had bee* so
gruatly encreased and dnciplintKi a* to i. (ford the
Wrongest assurance of safety to the inhabitants-*-that
business had revived; and the pdblick house* again
opened-for the amusement and accommodation of
the people—that the Theatre was opened on the 14th
May*-for the first time sfher the departure of the
prmCe Regent. Of the, military operationsj)f the
urates^ and other information, the following sketch
from the latest date; will furnish examples t .
“ Litbon, May 16, 1809.
“ Authentic letters from Lamego, of the date of
the 9thCurrent (-Hay) affirm_ that the Portuguese
have rendered themselves musters of the passage of
Regna, and of other strong positions on the opposite
■Me of the Dodero, and that our troops in conse
quence h.ve n free passage to the other side of the
river. The Frencli have not yet given us battle.
“ By a vessel, Which sailed from Oporto for the
Brazils, and which has been obliged to enter .the Ta
gus, Wp are assared.th.it the French have retired
from Amaranta, to take a position on the Douero.
In a few (lays, we expect to give the details of an
' action, which cannot fail to take pl.ee.
** The captain of the same ship reports, that the
province of Gallicia had recoverd its liberty ; that
the French are shut Up in the fort of Corunna, and
that the troops of Homsn'a surround them, and that
there is no doubt that they will be obliged to surren
der In a few days.”
Cofly of a (k*fiatch from general Beretford, to hi*
Excellency Pereira Porjrt, ■'
441 have the honour to communicate to your ey
ceUencv, that on the 9th of May, 1 had caused a de
tachment % advance to take a favourable position
»j9*tween Amaranta and - Mezao Pri(», which are
occupied by the French, having met with no o
* ther enemy than a imait detachment, who fled_
I had an opportunity of placing tour pieces of can
non in an excellent position.
44 f ordered a constant fire upon the division of the
enemy, who at the end of two hours beat a retreat
in grtat dhairdef. Major Harding, whom I had
•tut to observe the effect of this, reports to have
•een the French carry off five waggons of wounded.
Their force consisted of 3500 infantry and 500 caval
ry Commanded by general Louison. 1 have ordered
a reinforcement, commanded by the general Fran
cisco de Silveira, to keep this position, and to cut off
. the communication between Amaranta ami Mezao
Frio. The conduct of the enemy was horrible, hav
ing burnt all the villages and huts in his retreat.
. (Signed) HEHF'.SFOHD.
1 Head-quarters at Ltimago, 11th Ma\.
Cofly if a letter, dated the 11 th of May, at the ad
vanced flo*(».
“ I have the honour of informing your excellency
that the French have abandoned Mezao Frio. 1 shall
do my utmost to maintain the good position I have
taken. Be the advices I have received, I can say
that the French h ive lost thirty cavalry and eighty
infantry, and that they have a great number wound
ed, and have abandoned one ammunition waggon
nnd a great quantity of waggons loaded with provisi
ons. . (Signed)
FRANCISCO DE SILVEIRA.
Copy of a letter from lib excellency M. Vi'lliers, mi
mster of his firitannick majesty, to his excellency
Pereira Forjas, May info
“ 1 have this instant received the news that the
tr ops commanded by Sir Arthur Wellesley have
completely beaten the French tu the number of 4000.
The 16th Portuguese regiment distinguished them
selves. We have obliged foe enemy to abandon their
positions/'
Tim following article is received in a letter from
Lisbon, dated outlie 17th Msv ; “ There have been
*reat rejoicings here to day, on account as I under
stand by the guards, of foe French being defeated^
-nr ne ir Oporto."
In confirmation of the above intelligence, captain
Stacy verbally rejiorts, that tlie (lay previous to his
departure, (18th May), official accounts was receiv
ed of the retaking of Oporto by the English and For
tuguese troops—that the French had retreated some
■ailes from the city ; bnt their communication with
Spain being completely cut off, and being surround
ed nyi superior force, new* was momently expected
ef their unconditi aial surrender, and that great re
joicing# and IlluminatiOnd bail taken place in conse
q^ience of fots agreeable intelligence ; enpt. Stacy
■lao report* that foe army were in high spirits ;
•nd that the greatest good will and unanimity exist
ed between foe English and Portuguese armies.
Extract of a letter from LLdon dated May 17.
“AVe have just received the glorious news, that
Oporto, is re.taken by the English; foe retreat of the
9t%Bch is cut off, and their surrender as prisoners of
Svar, inevitable."
A vessel had just arrived at Lisbon from England,
bringing the agreeable intelligent* of a final adjust
ment of our differences with England. (Japt. Stacy
did^not understand thafrthcylud been officially re
Tke Prince of Lichtenttein, who Is stnteil to have
kden killed in Bavaria, at the fate battle of Bohr,
had just published, (prior to entering on the fatal
■ampaign) by permission of the government, a new
and comprehensive edition ofthe statistical tables of
foe Austrian empire. According to those tables the
vopuUtiou amounts to 33,965,000 person#; the regu
lar army oomprises 590.000 men of whom 271,800
•re infantry, 50,800 cavalry,‘14,840 artillery ; the
rest consist of guards, invalid corps, &c.. There is
besides an army of reserve' of 49,530 men, indepen
dent of the Hungarian conscription. The empii p
dompriz** 11,3*8 square miles, 790 towns, 204d frj
m 65.460 villages ami hamlets, ami 3,573,610
dwelling ht uses. The revenue is now 1146,000,000
florins, 28 of which arefor the support ofthe court,
Md 18 millions for that of the army. Vienna con
tains 6935 h use», „nd a population, exclusive of
strangers, of 229,80# persons. „
PinnoF.tFiiiA, July 3.
LATEST FROM FRANCE,
lllA« >1 * n 4 ■n/iHii'nn <n -.1 t
Tbe J*rj^F;Ur American,-arrived here on Satur
day eeertPPrin 5%*fays from Dunkirk, having on
oaf nuim , in irora uunxtrk, having on
board Mr. Purvivnte mWk dispatches ffbm general
Armstrong, our minister at Parts,
Mr. Purviance politely loanedto the editors of the
Preeroan’s Journal, files of ihe Journal du 3otr, the
Journal du Commerce, the Gazette ijationalle, the
G- sette de Fi ance, and thcJMpiaide L'Empire,.
to the fth-cf May dnciusive. WBrn which we Infe
made as copious translations as tour time and limits
wonld admit. *
The American property in France, Win the same
situation,as heretofore, and no vessel'can ejear out
, from France, without giniug bonds to an enormous
■moist not to vwmte Buonaparte’* Mitao and tkrlu
decree*. The Wench minister, it is said, m in fe
vour, as far as he diige be,, of a tvLixution of the de
crees, hijt fiuiM>j|>iv> tt would apt bear it ’mentioned.
France is rU(p**N<;»*tnd-ns !rttnrlh i most deptarn
bl« state of iopiM«JMOn, tune hundred and ninety
nine out of 1 thptis nd detest % ;he [ireseM govern
ment. The cornin' ,-i^l nu of France, once so
opulent, -re ruined, iiid ekniMr a wretched popu
lation of , nr® literaUv dropping dead
in the streets Iat want of mmcwhaenu
Talleyrand it dismissed from office, and is in
^^3[. Dashkoff, the dteiffairs^V^e.
tide in the United States, tvlth hit family and suit,*
CtfljMHpu>sengcr in the Fair American.
On Saturday evening, arrived the brig Fair Ame-’
rion, capt. Bruce, from Dunkirk. This vessel was
taken up by Mr. Armstrong, our minister, On per
mission granted him, by Buonaparte, to brine dispat
ches to this country, with liberty to bring off a large
number of captains and other persons belonging to
England and America who had been detailed for
some lime in France. She sailed from Dunkirk on
the 8th of May, and the same day landed 30 or 40
passengers (chiefly women) at Dover.
By the passengers, we learn that this vessel wa9
taken up, and the dispatches made out previous to
the arrival of the Mentor, from the United States—
the Mentor had arrived but a few days before they
sailed, and urtmld not sail for the United States be
fore the middle, or latter epUftf June, as all commu
nication with BuenapartmWho was in Germany,
would be tedipus, as he could not receive a courier in
less than 0 days from Paris. They also say, that
considerable application was made to him before his
departure from Paris, respecting American affairs,
but in vain, as he seemed determined to get whit he
could and keep wh.it he got, and il ls supposed his
victories in Germany will not make him in a better
humour with America.
That the non-intercourse with America, is so se
verely felt hi France, that the want of commercial
business is injuring their towns, and beggaring their
inhabitants; that coffee was selling for ft dollar per
lb. and white sugar for the same; and the produce
of France was in so little demand, that brandy could
be purchased for 20 or 30 dollars per pipe, and wines
111 proportion.
Russia, II Hand, Denmark and Sweden it was said, |
being in a great measure or altogether under the 1
controul of Buonaparte, would be called on and no
doubt would put in t ree the French decrees, and
seize all goods arriving among them, that may be J
even suspected of being the produce of England or !
its dependencies, therefore tt will he madness to i
send vessels to any^ of those ports, until something!
is settled with Buonaparte,as they consider all West ;
India goods in that light.
It was reported in France, that the. Austrians ;
were making considerable advances in Italy, having !
gained advantages on the French in the several ac- j
tions they had with them in that quarter. Among ;
the {Uhisenglrs landed in England wera several A*
mertwn captains, whose names we hope to obtain
for our r£fm Among those landed here, are dipt.
Kangs, dtfjjs'James Adams of this port, condemned
m July lastTror touching at an English port; capt.
Snow of the Syren of Boston; captain Sheppard of
the Hopewell, taken on his passage from London to
New-York; capt. Bowes, of the ship Betsey of New
York, from Malaga to Loudon with vine; ail of
whose vessels are condemned; also capt. Suow of
--, whose vessel was not condemned.
The brig Speculator, Little, of Wise asset, from
Amsterdam for Savannah, and the ship New Guide,
Graig, of New-Orlenns from Alirant for London,
neither of which were condemned, lay at Calais and
the slop Sully Ann, Nichols of Newburypovt lay un
condemned, tit Amsterdam, though her cargo w§s
sold and put into the treasury.
One of the gentlemen handed us the following
list of vessels waiting their fate at Charante—Hoi
land Trader ; Amsterdam Packet, and Wartham, of
New-Yor^ j Two Brothers, of- Newbedford ; Nep
tune Sc Eleanor, of Portland ; Lexington, of Balti
more ; Minerva, of Rochester, brig Plymouth and
JVilliam of Newburyport.
The French have confined a number of American
Captains in the jail at Dunkirk, all of whom had
been liberated or made their escape, except captain
Tucker, of the William of Newberry, and a captain
Jenkins, who were fined 1300 dollars each besides
the loss of their vessels and cargoes and their crews
were marched to Arras, where a great number of A
merican seamen are.confined. True Amer.
Translated fur the Freeman's Journal.
. FIRST BULLETIN.
Head Quarters, Katlsbon, A/,rU'\S4."
The Austrian army passed the Inn the 9th April.
On that quartern? hostilities have begun, against
prance, her allies, and the confederation of the
Rhine.
The following ft the position of the French forces
and their tdlies.
The corps of the duke of Auerstadt at Ratisbcn.
Thecorps of the duke of Rivoli at Ulm.'
The corps of gwOndinot afAugsburg.
The head quarters are at Strasburgh.
Thcihisee Batavian divisions under the command
of [lie duke of Dantzic, are divided in the follow
ing manner s „ .
The first, commanded by the prince royal, at Mu
nich. The second, commanded by general Deroy
at Landsbut. , Tile third, commanded by general de
W rede,' at Straubing.
The Wirtemherg division at Heydenheim.
The Saxon troops encamped under the walls of
Dresden. -
The corps of the duchy of Warsaw, commanded
by prince I’omatnu ski, at. Warsaw.
On the loth, the Austrian troops invested Passau,
where a battalion of Batavians shut themselves up.
They invested at the same time Kulilein, where
likewise a Battavian battalion shut themselves up.
This movement took place without the firing of a
The court of Bavaria quitted Munich to go to
Dillengen. The Batavian division which was at
LumUImt went to Altorf, by the left bank of the Iser.
The rtivisiyn commanded by general de WrCde
went to Neustadt.
The Duke of kivoli departed from Ulro, and went
to Augsimrgh. . ,
Fcom the 10th toithe 16th the armv of the enemy
advanced from the Inn towards the Iser. Parties o(
cavalry met, and had several skirmishes, in which
the Bavarians had tlw advantage. On the 16th at
FfafTenhoffen, the 2d uud ■ Sd regiments of Bavarian
light horse ovei thew Ahechwpsrs of Stipschitz, and
the dragoons of R> ae(^en, Aft the same time the
enemy iwesented theniaejvetdn considerable force to
fall upon Londshut. The-bridge was broken, and
the Bavarian derision commanded by general Derny
i'pp«'sed, a strong resistance to this thovement. But
heiri menaced,hy columns which had passed the Iser
to M .orbuvg, and to Frei sing, this division retired
in *1 order towards that of general Wrede. All
die bavarian army concentrated itself near Neustadt.
Wkc Kmfiettur'» dc/iarture from Parisr\4firit%3.
"TlfijTefflpereuf'was'Milfi >r med 6y means of the Te
egraphe cut the 12tb, of (ihe Austrian army having
l awed the Inn/hiid imme Hatefy |eft Pari* the same
moment; He Arrived on; the |#ti» at I.nuisbitrg,-at
toJiitjA. in* this rhCmitag, and in thb afternoon of
he K-itne iUy at Iliitengeo, where he saw the king -
f B.iviri*. passed balFTin hour with this priaee,
rcpiised tohiiiig him back to his capital fn fifteen
>'• tQ done his houseiatfd to
ruakftiiins gre itoe than any rf 1m, ancestor# bad e
rrr been. On the ITth, at 2 in the morning,'his ma
arrived at Donauwertli, where the .Ucrtd qua£
s were established, and gave immediately the u9
:e».‘ary orders/ ; t
The 38th, the head quarters were removed to In- ’
, obtadu . . .-’V.
'Ike
BATTLE OF PFAFFENHOFPEN.
April 19.
On fb$tl9ftiigeneraU)udinnt departed from Augs
tiuTgh, arrived at the break of day at PMfruii* rifcn
met from 3 to 40(X) Austrians, attacked and dispers
ed them, and made 300 prisoners.
i he duke of liivoli with Ins cvr/ia d'armea arriv
ed the nest day at Pfaffenhofien.
T he same day the duke of Auerstadt left Rati,bon
to fail upon Neustadt, and to approach nearer t
Ingolstadt. It then appeared evident, that the pro
ject of the emperour was to manoeuvre the ent-rni
who had decamped from Land<;hut, to attack them
at the moment they thought themselves secure, and
to march towards Ratisbon.
BATTLE OF *TANN,
April 19.
On the 19th, at day break, the doke of Auerstadt
marched in two columns : the divisions of Morand
and Guidin composing the right. The division St.
Hilnire arrived at the village of Peissing. and met
the enemy, superior in number, but interior in va
lour.
From that moment, the campaign was opened bv
a combat glorious to pur arms General St. Hilaire,
supported by general Friant, overthrew all thM was
before him, forced the pomions'nf tne enemy, killed
a great number, and tn .de from 6 to 700 prisoners.
The 72d distinguished itself on this dy, and the
57»h maintained its ancient reputation. Sixteen
years since, this regiment was called in Italy The
Terrible, end it has well justified its name in this af
fair; as by itself it successively attacked and over
threw six Austrian regiments.
On the left, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon, general
Novand met likewise an Austrian division, which he
attacked in the van, while the duke of Dantxic, with
a Bavarian corps which came from Abens^erg, at
tacked them in the rear. This division was soon
routed from all its pe^Rions, and left some hundreds
dead and prisoners. The old regiment of drag'ons
was destroyed by the Bavarian light horse, and its
colonel killed.
At the close of the day, the corps of the duke of
Dantzic formed a junction with that of the duke of
Auerstadt.
in an iiie*e amirs, me generals Hilaire and
Friant have particularly distinguished themselves.
'I hese unhappy Austrian troops who had been
brought from V iennu, with the noise of songs and
fifes, were made to believe that there was no lou.
ger any French army in Germany, and that they
had only to do with the Havanans ’and WirtemherV
gers. They shewed all their resentment against
their chiefs for the errors into which they had led
them, and their terror was very great at the sight
cf those ancient bands whom they had been accus
tomed to consider as their masters.
In all these battles our loss lias been inconsidera
ble in comparison to that of the enenir, who lost ma
ny officers and generals, who were compelled to put
themselves in the van to encourage their troops.—
The prince of Lichtenstein, the general Lusignan,
and several other officers were wounded. The loss
of the Austrians in colonels and officers of inferior
grade is very considerable.
BATTLE OF ABENSBERG.
April 20.
The emperour resolved to fight and destroy the
corps of the arch-duke Lewis, and that of general
Hiller, together 60,000 strong. The 20th, his ma
jesty. went to Abt-nsberg. He gave orders to the
duke of Aucrstadt to hold in check the corps of Ho
henzollern, of Rosenberg, and of Lichtenstein,
whilst with the two divisions of Morand and Gudin,
the Bavarians and Wirtemburgers, he would attack
the front of the army of the arch-duke Lewis and
cf general Hiller: and that by means of the duke
of Kivoli he would cut off the enemy's communica
tions, by causing him to go \o Freysing, and from
there by the rear-guard of the Austrian army.—
The divisions of Morand and Gudin, formed the left
and moved under the orders of the duke of Monte
bello. The emperour decided to fight at the head
of the Bavarians and Wirtemburgers. He caused
to be united in a circle the officers of the two ar
mies, and spoke to them for a long time. The
prince royal of Bavaria translated into German that
which he spoke in French. The emperonr made
known t'o them the confidence which he placed in
them ; he told the Bavarian officers that the Aus
trians had always been their enemies, and that it
was their independence which they aimed at. That
for two. centuries past, the Bavarian colours had
been displayed against the house of Austria. But
that now he would render them so powerful, tlut
he would make them henceforward irresistible.
He spoke .to the Wirtgmburgersiof the victories
they had gained over the house of Austria, whilst
they served in the Prussian armies; and of the late
advantages they had obtained in the campaign of
Silesia. He told them that the moment of vanquish
ing was come, to canty the war into the Austrian
territory. This discourse was repeated to the com
panies by their captains, and the different argu
ments which the emperour had madej produced the
desired effect. *\4
i neemperour tnen gave the signal for-. combat,
and apportioned his manceuvres according t^fcajur
titular Character of his troops. General IjHHe,
an officer of great merit, placed before t^H^e
of Siegenburg, attacked an Austrian divinSlmch
was opposed to him. General Vandnmme, who
commanded the Wirtemburgers, fell upon them on
their right flank. The duke of Dantzie, with the
division of the prince royal and that of general De
rc.y, marched towards the village of Rauhausen, to
arrive upon thfe high road of Abensberg to Land*
shut. The duke of Montebello, with'his two French
divisions, forced the left extremity, overthrew all
that was before him, and come to Rolir and Rnsh
emberg. lu every quarter the cannon was engaged
with success. The enemy disconcerted by these ar«
rangements, only fought an hour when they beat a
retreat. Eight pair of cclours, twelve piece* of
cannon, and 18000 men, were the result of this af
fair, which has cost us but few men.
COMBAT OF THE CAPTURE OF LAND.
SHUT.
April 21.
The battle of £bensberg, having uncovered the
flank of the Austrian army, and the magazines of
the enemy; on the 31st, the emperour at the dawn
of day marched towards Landshut. The duke of 1*.
tria overturned the cavalry in the plaiu and before
the city. The general of division, Mouton, order
ed the grenadiers of the 17th, forming the head of
the column, to march over the bridge with fixed bay
onets. This bridge which is of wood, was burnt,
but was not an obstacle to our infantry, who passed
it and penetrated into the city. The enemy, driven
from their position, was attacked by the duke of Ri
voli, who came from the right-side. Landshut fell
into our lutnds, and with Landshut we took 30 pieces
of cannon, 9000 prisoners, 3000 baggagp w«gg#a,
and three superb sets of pontoon bridges, together
with the hospital* and the magazine*, , which the
Austrian army had begun to fprm. The couriers,
aid-d^htmps of the commander in chief, the arch
dukeBnarits, and convoys of sick people coming
to raedshut, were very much astonished to find the
euemy there had the same fate. ,,
f BATTLE OF ECKMUJiL.
f - ‘ ’ April 22,
• Whilst the battle of Abensberg and the battle of
L*nd&lmt,tiad such important results, the arch duke
Charles united with a corps of Bohemians comman
ded by general Kollo wrath, and obtained at Ratia
* trifling success A thousand men at the 6nh.
•'haI', hru* been left there to guard the bridge of Ra
isbon, * ttf "received uo orders to retreat. Heinz
«:loset» in by the Austrian army, these brave fellow*
h.. tingexhausted {heir cartridges, were compelled
t > sui render This accident teas very much felt bv
the empevodr, who sworfethu in i4'liouis the Aus
trian blood should flow hi Ratisbon to revenge the
affront done to his armies. 6
In the mean time the dukes of Auei stadt and Dant
'-'Ar at bay the troops of Rosenberg, Hohenzol
orn an-’ Lichtenstein, There was no time to be
a.st. On the 22d in the pioming, the emperour be
c-rr Ins mavrh from Landshut with two divisions of
*'e <!llke "f Montebello, the corps of the duke of
y "''}}■ *wo t!ivisi‘ «»'* curassjer* of Nansouty
u»l ht. Sulpice, anil the Wirtfiuburg di\ i^ont. At
*'•he “ rived before Krkmul, where, the four
d i ps of the Austrian army, forming 110,000 men,
were posted under dm command of the arch-duke
Cnarles. I he duke of Montebello dislodged the c
nemvon the left, in conjunction with the "division of
(»ud'n. At the first signal the dukes of Auerstadt
and Duntzte, and the division of light-horse of ge
neral Mnntbi im, met together.
Then was to be seen the most superb spectacle
which war can offer—110,000 of the enemy attack
ed on every point, overturned on their left, and suc
cessively driven from their posts in every position.
! he detail of military events would be too long ■ it
is sufficient to say thay were put to the route. The
enemy has lost the greater part of their cannon, and
a great number of prisoners. The 10th regiment
- of hght-inf .ntry of the division of Sit. Hilaire cover,
eo itself with glory in attacking the enemy. And
j the Austrians being driven from the wood which^o,
vers Ratisbon, were driven into the plains, and cut
to pieces by the cavalry. The senator general of
division, Demout, had a horse killed under him.—
The Austrian cavalry, strong and numerous, pre
sented itself to protect the retreat of its infantry.—
I he division ..f St. Sulpice m, the right, and the di.
vision of N uisoutv on the left. ih— ’•ni.-.
line < f hussars and cuirassiers of the enemy were
P<it to flight. More than 300 Austrian cuirassiers
were made prisoners. Night came on. Our cuir
assiers con turned their march to Ttatisbcn. Tlie di
v sion of Nansouty met a column of the enemy which
fled, charged it, and made it prisoner. It was com
posed of three Hungarian battalions of IStiO men.1
The division ot si. Suipice charged another de
tachment, in which the archduke diaries narrowly
escaped being t iken. He owed his safety only to
the swiftness othis horse. In this battle ofEck
muhl there was but one half of the French troops
engaged. The enemy’s army continued to defile all
nirht by degrees, taking the most frightful roads. All
| their wounded, the greatest part of their artillery,
15 paiw*t colours, and 20,000 prisoners, have fallen
into our hands. The cuirassiers have aceoiding to
custom, covered shemselves with glorv.
COMBAT AND TAKING OF RATISBON.
April 23.
At the dawn of day, we advanced to Ratisbon, the
advanced guard formed by the division of Gudin, anil
the cuirassiers of the divisions of Nansoutv and St.
Suipice. We were not long before we saw the ene
my’s cavalry, which endeavoured to cover the city.
1 hree different attacks were made, and alt were to
>'iir advantage. Sword in hand we put to flight 8000
of the enemy's cavalry, who precipitately passed the
Danube. In the mean time our sh u p shooters went
towards the city. By an inconceivable arrangement,
the Austrian general had placed six regiments to be
sacrificed without reason. Fhe city is surrounded
by a had ditch and a worse counterscarp. The ar
tillery arrived. We began to batter w ith pieces of
12. We soon knew that bv means of n ladder we
could descend the ditch and afterwards mount a
breach we h ,d made in the wall.
The duke of Montebello caused a battalion to en
ter this breach, which gained a postern, and from
thence the city. All that resisted were put to the
sword. The number of prisoners exceeded 8000.—
In consequence of their bad arrangements, the ene
my had not time to cut down their bridge, and the
French passed it mixed with the Austrians to the
left side. This unfortunate city, which they had the
barontity to defend, has suffered greatly, "it was on
fire part of the night, but by the assiduity of general
Morlund and his division, it was extinguished.
Til as at the battle of Abensburg the emperor beat
separately the two corps of the archduke Lewis ami
general Hiller. At the battle of Landshut, he took
possession of the centre of the communication of th*
enemy, and of the general deposit of their maga
zines and artillery. Finally, at the battle of Ec.k
muiil, the four corps of Hohenzollern, Rosenburg,
Kollnwrath, and Liechtenstein, were defeated and
put to the route. The corps of gen. Bellegaide ar
rived the morning after the battle : he could only he
a witness to the taking of Ratisbon, when he fled to
Bohemia.
The first information of the military operations
which have opened the campaign in so brilliant a
manner, will he followed in detail of ail the deeds in
arms which have rendered illustrious the French
win ainea armies.
In all our combats our loss has not exceeded 1200
killed and 4000 wounded. The genera! of division,
Cervoni, the chief of the etat major of the Duke of
Montebello, was struck by a cannon ball and fell
dead upon the field of battle of Eckmuhl. He was
an odier of merit, and had distinguished himself in
our tirst campaigns. At the combat of PeiSsmg, ge
neral Hervo, chief of the etat-myor »f the'Duke of
Auerstadt, was likewise killed. The Duke of Auers
tadt regrets very much this officer, whose valour, in
telligence and activity he esteemed. The general
of brigade, Clement, commandant of a brigade of
cuirassiers of the division of St. Sulpice.hadhisarm
shot off. He is an officer of courage anddistinguish
ed merit. Gen. Schram has been wounded. The
colonel of the 14th Chasseurs has been killed irf an
attack. In general, our loss of officers has- bees in
considerable. The 1000 men of the 65th, which had
been made prisoners, have been for the most part
retaken. It is impossible to shew more valour and
good will, than'is shewn by our troops.
At the battle of Eckmuhl, the corps of the duke of
Rivoli, not having been able to join, this marshal re
mained constantly near the emperOr, and carried thd
orders for the execution of different manoeuvres. At
the assault of Raiisbon the duke of Montebello, who
had designed the place of passage, caused the lad
ders to be carried by his aid-de-camps.
The prince of Neufchatel, in order to encourage
the trntys, and to give at the same time a proof of
confidence tothe allies, marched several timet in the
van guard with the Bavarian regiments.
The Duke of Auerstadt has given in these differ
» . --—an UH.W UUIU •
ent affairs, new proofs of the intrepidity which cha
racterize him.
The Duke de Rivigo, with at much earnestness as
intrepidity, traversed the enemy’s legions frequently
in order to make known to the different columns "the
intentions of the emperor.
Ot 220,000 men which composed the Austrian ar
my, all were engaged except the 20,000 under gene
ral -Bellegarde. In the French armv, on the mu.
trary, nearly one half did not fire a* musket. The
; enemy astonished at the rapid movurvnta !*- ond
Sf^Jat'on, have found thetpsclvcn deprived of tlie^j
. foolish hope, and arefranspoi-ud from a delirium
presumption into approaching despair.
SECOND BULLETIN.
_ . jtfiril 2T:
On the ^Sd of April, the day at e, tl*e tattle of