ture into the treasury: but preserving the dis
tinction which this learned commentator has
taken between the two terms, as above stated,
the one being a civil law, and the other a com
mon law term, ancl discovering also that he
lias expressly treated of the right now in ques
tion in a chapter under the head of ‘ title bv
forfeiture,’ II. Bl. 2G", is it not; fair to con
clude that the technical and appropriate term
descriptive of this right is forfeiture and not
-confiscation ? At least is not this the most fa
miliar and proper term to designate the right
in question ? And cannot we also fortify this
definition hv a most respectable authority; by
-the constitution of this state, which in trans
ferring this among other powers from the king
to the commonwealth employs the terms ‘ es
cheats, penalties and forfeitures,’ art. 20,with
out making any mention of confiscations r
The term ‘ forfeitures’ was used, because the
article related to forfeitures by the common
law only : out it omitted the term conhscati
on, which is appropriated to the description
of civil law ; and jure belli forfeitures, because
of that class, were not then within the contem
plation of the convention.
Besides this ordinary right of forfeiture,
there is an extraordinary one accruing to bel
ligerent nations, by right of war, of confis
cating the property of their enemies. This
right does not await and attend on the contin
gent event of a purchase by or a descent to
to an alien ; it affects properly then actually
holden by the enemy; nor is it carried into
effect by the ordinary course of the municipal
laws ; the property is seized and confiscated
by an extraordinary act of the government of
belligerent nation. It is seized not because
it belongs to an Alien, but to an enemy. To
this right it is that the term confiscation is
technically and properly applied.
...Here then are two senses, in which the
term confiscation may be applied ; the one re
stricted to a mere seizure by a belligerent na
tion in right of war ; the other an 'extensive
sense covering not only the right which has
just been mentioned, but also comprehending
a mode of acquiring property by the common
wealth under a permanent municipal regula
tion. In which of these acrcptions the term
is to he employed in the f.th article of the
treaty of peace, becomes therefore a most
important question.
1 bis article, it is to be recollected, is con
tained in a treaty of peace ; which at cording
to Vattel 1). I. page 34, ‘naturally and of it
self relates only to the war which it puts an
end to, and therefore igis only in such a re
lation that it is to he understood.’ Such a
treaty therefore does not naturally relate to a
mere municipal regulation. In fact, a treaty
of such extensive application could not at
that time have been formed by the American
commissioners ; because the government un
der which they acted had been very much cir
cumscribed in its powers by the articles of
confederation. It may he seen by referring
to the documents attached to Mr. Jefferson’s
Jetter to Mr. Hammond, No. 7, 8, 9, 10, and
11, that tlie American commissioners had dis- '
Claimed all powers in congress to“ interfere
in matters appertaining to the internal polity
of the several states ; and even declared that
the power of congress did not authorise them
tf> stipulate for a restoration of the confis
cated estates of real British subjects, much
less those of refugees, because those acts had
taken place under the authority of the several
states. The most that they could or did per
.form was modestly to recommend such a re
stitution to the several states ; and the Bri
tish commissioners acquiesced in this re
Ml H II U ill I.nijjfimra. congress claimed and
exercised tile power of interdicting all future
confiscations, i. e. jure belli confiscations, but
they disclaimed any power of restoring even
the property which confiscations of this kind
itself had thrown into the state treasuries.
Congress had the power of peace and war:
they had a right to make any treaty, which
should convert enemies into friends, and re
move all the disabilities that were attached to
the former character ; hut congress had no
power to invade the ordinary rights of the
states, and make citizens of Virginia out ol
.those whom the ‘ internal polity’ of her laws
had thrown into the elass of aliens,
t. 1 be term confiscation then when occurring
in a treaty ol peace naturally means a confis
.cationjure kt’il-, and does not extend to tin
common law right of Fsrheat and fofeitures.
.Two circumstances conspire to fortify this
.construction.— 1st. The confiscation.-, here pro
hibited arc connected in the same article, and
in the same sentence of the article with fro:c
culions on account of the part taken in the
war ; 2dly, the history of the revolution clear
ly proccs that many such confiscations were
made on the part of the state governments.
Sec the referrences of Mr. Hammoml’sletter
to Mr. Jclferson of 5th March, 17'jy. To
rvhat class of person.?, these confiscations and
prosecutions related, it will be of consider
able importance to determine.
The 6th article of the treaty of peace, which
contains these terms, upon the whole context
of it taken together, can onlv relate to those
who being once American citizens, afterwards
became refugees, and joined the enemy. It
cannot relate in a collect he point of view to
real British suijects. For would it not have
been absurd to stipulate, that after peace had
taken place between the two nations, we should
not commence prosecutions against real Bri
tlsh subjects for the part they had taken dur
ing the war? Had there been no such article
ta the m aty of peace and America had com
tpented such persecutions against such Britisl
subjects, Great Britain would justly have cor,
side red them as acts of hostility against her
regard to, British subjects therefore,
this provision vould have been wholly super
fluous and unnecessary. But with respect to
the American refugees ; It was strictly ne
cessary and proper. They had become citi
zens of these states and without expatriating
themselves had joined the standard of the
enemy.— They had exposed themselves to the
severalpenaltics, which the statesmightchoose
to inflict upon them after the peace, for their
treachery during the war: and the humanity
and the honour of the British nation were
deeply interested in their protection. It was
to them therefore, that the latter part of this
article exclusively applies. The interdiction
of prosecutions for the part they had taken in
the war, sufficiently secured them from such
common law forfeitures, as were incident to
attainders or prosecutions for treason. Not
being aliens, though enemies and traitors to
the United States, they were safe, independ
ently ol the treaty, from the ordinary efTeet of
the laws of escheat and forfeiture. Ii is o ily
tliun in relatmn to Ipo-icrloti vm nrtc fie#'#* ..
tion and seizure, that the first part of tins ar
ticle is ro be understood even as it rcsnects
the refugees. Why therefore should eve give
a construction to the treaty which will
intrench upon the munit ipal systems of the
several states, when every end necessary to
he attained in relation to the refugees can be
completely effected by the interdiction of ex
traordinary acts of confiscation and seizure?
This article, taken collectivelv, does not
then relate to real British subjects; and as to
that particular par: of the article which inter
dicts future confiscations, it is superfluous and
unnecessary to apply it to them; for such in
terdiction had already arisen from the mere
conclusion of the treaty of peace.
2. With respect to lands holden here at the
time of our separation, i. e. at the epoch of
ourindependencc,by British subjects, it would
be unnecessary to express any opinion, be
cause the present case stands on a much wea
ker foundation than that. Sm h lands are safe
in the hands of these holders, by the principle
oi the common law, literally understood, in
relation to escheat and forfeiture for alt< rnage;
that law not permitting a subject to become an
alien. If then it be trie, that the lands of
those holders are safe under the operation of
the law s of escheat and forfeiture, the treaty
need not receive such an extended construc
tion as will protect them from confiscation,
and as such lands are also protected from ex
traordinary confiscations by the mere signature
of the treaty, that instrument need not to he
applied at all to the lands so holden by real
British subjects.
But even ii a contrary opinion should pre
vail ; if it should be even deemed necessary to
give to the treaty a strained interpretation in
regard to vested rights, the same necessity
does not exist in relation to contingent possi
ble rigiits. The eases of this class occurring
during the war were probably very few, be
cause all intercourse between the two coun
tries being prohibited and interrupted, few
would wish to purchase a title to real proper
ty in either country; and we must imnute a
very gross ignorance toourpeople, on the sub
ject ot alienage, before we can suppose thai
many devises were made, or many descents
were permitted, to such aliens. Besides what
ever obligations there may have been upon the
British government to protect its subjects pro
perty held in the enemy’s country at the com
mencement of hostilities, it was not equally
bound to protect all future, possible or eventual
acquisitions. W ith respect to such acquisitions
as may have accrued a ince the date of the trea
. •. ill . **
*</, it »UU1U nave uccu ill'll uiircclSUKlauie IOr
the British king to have expected us to grant,
such inestimable privileges to his subjects, as
the people of no other power upon earth arc
permitted to enjoy, although they render Uo no
services, and owe us no allegiance. An ana
logous illustration may be drawn from the
subsequent treaty of 1795 ; which, although it
expressly established the title of the lands then
Kcli'ulhj holrftn in either country, has suffered
these eventual rights, or in other words, this
famous doctrine of legitimation to be cast into
that fathomless vortex prepared by our revo
lution for all those parts and principles of the
common law of England, which refuse to be
blended with our republican institutions.
3. But every observation which has been
advanced to establish a discrimination between
forj iture and confiscation, applies with much
greater force to the discrimination between
an escheat and confiscation, It would be do
ing much more violence to the signification of
the latter than the former term, to confound
it with the term confiscation. And vet the
right now in question, is a right accruing by
escheat.
The construction of the 6th article of th*
treaty ol peace may now be collected into cn
general point of view. Itappears,thatthntpa: -
of it which prohibits all future confiscations re
lates only to American refugees, and perhap
also through abundant caution to real British
subjects ; that it was intended to secure no
other_ privileges even to these men, than a fu
ture indemnity from all extraordmai y acts of
seizure and confiscation—and that under all
these confiscations, that construction of it car
no longer be admitted, which under the covei
of its general expressions, would attempt to
prostrate all the ordinary rights of escheat and
lorleituie, which the several states have claim
ed over the mere contingent andfutut^ acqui
sitions of British subjects.
The claim of the plaintiffs therefore is to he
supported neither by the principles of the com
mon law, nor by the 6th article of the treatt
of peace.
i he court affirmed the decision of the dis
trict court, and the defendent retains the pro
perty.
THE I'UBUCK LEDGER.
TO SIILYV
THE VERY A G K AND BODY Of T H K T I M F. ,
HIS FORM AND P1IESSURL.
MONDAY EVENING, MAY 13, 1K05.
The New-York papers of May 2, state, on the au
thority of a letter from Bourdcaux March 10, that
Joseph Buona]>arte has been crowned in Holland —
This we cannot at present give much credit to. Per
haps Holland may have been written by mistake in
stead of Lombardy.
Baltimore papers May 6, me ntion that the Cinw..i
had arrived at Point Petre, GuadaU upe, and would
be sold for the benefit of the owners and underwri
ters, with the reservation of salvage fur the priva
teer that brought her in—This is rather doubtful—
We know not whether justice requires that the pri
vateer should abandon her right to the whole—but
we know full well the justice of a French tribunal has
seldom been very exemplary.
It is reported that in consequence of Mr. Crown
shield’s refusal to accept the appointment of Secre
tary of the Navy, the seals of that office have been
offered to three or four others, who have all declined,
and that, as no more eligible person can be found,
Mr. Smith is to relinquish the attorney-general's
place, and return to his former employment.
We had before heard of the elevation of our bro
ther-in-law Murat, and our son-in-law Ueauharnois,
to the rank of Princes, but we have been until now
ignorant of the political rank accompanying this ap
pointment. That of Murat to the station cf Grand
-idmiral is contrary to all expectation, and marks
more strongly than any other circumstance the Km
perour’s resentment of his brother Jerome’s marri
age ; as, even in France, it was generally under
stood that that office was reserved for him, in case
he should succeed in appeasing the anger of his au
gust family. Never has despotism rvorn a more un
disguised front than it exhibits in the impelial edicts
which wc copy this day from the Political Register
of Philadelphia ; and to which we would humbly so
licit the attention of the demoralizing reformists of
our own country; by a reference to which, wc
would admonish the friends of Republicanism to re
fect that the same causes will almost always produce
die same consequences.
The importance of the decision by the high Court
of Appeals of this state, in the case of Reed k others
i s. Reed, has induced us to assign to it a large por
tion of this day’s paper : we know that a majority
of our readers will agree with us that it could'nol
have been better employed.
We have no papers later than March 13th by the
Commerce—They furnish nothing worth copying.
Drawings in the LOTTERY for the benefit of
William & Mary College.
Fourth Day.
Prizes of 15 dollars.
Nos. 7182, 7819, 7900, 4105, 5068, 2451, 7377,
1485, 4128, 4646, 2029.
Adjourned till Thursday 12 o’clock.
From the Charleston Courier, April 6.
THE INAUGURAL SPEECH.
No. IX.
“ Because thy rage against me, and thy tumult, is
come u/i into mine curs, therefore will I put my
hook into thy nose, anti my bridle in thy tips, and
I will turn thee back by the way which thou earnest."
2 Kings, XIX, 28.
The words philosophists and phdosophism
have no place in the dictionaries of the Eng
lish language ; we owe them among other in
novations to the French Revolution ; that
epoch which has for once given vice, villainy,
and lolly, a short supremacy in the world, and
instructed men ol ordinary probity no more to
repine .at the unjust distributions of life, since
virtue i'.celt, the idol to which the good ever
bow in homage, and to which hypocrites once
found it necessary to bend the knee, has been
prostrated, and, as was prophetically said,
trainplcil beneath the hoof of a swinish multi huh.
Those who are most averse to coining new
words have been obliged to adopt the term
phihsojjhi.it, in order to designate a new, and
till lately, unheard of kind of person, or ra
ther monster ; and the term philosophim, to
express a system of anti-philosophy, sprung
from the depths of hell, and propagated w ith
industry and ingenuity truly diabolical, by all
those whom it has pleased’God, for his own
wise and beneficent purposes of universal
good, to give up to the temptations of the de
vil in his most damning disposition. To dis
tinguish die true philosophy and its disciples,
h orn the vile and vagrant sect who have abus
'd these names, by usurping them, the former
have had recourse to those terms. When
hereforc wc say of a man that lie is a philo
jjhis', we say that he is a person hostile to\
philosophy, and abhorred by real philoso
hers ; and when a man uses the word auti
'Sitlosophi.it, it is plain that he means thereby
■ person hostile to philosophists, and therefore
fnendln to true philosophy. In a word, there is
his extreme difference between them: the
hi!oso-/j/;,r? arc friendly to order, good go
ernment, and liberty upon permanent princi
des, deduced by reason from experience ;
"•’.ey love virtue, and maintain the cause of
rue religion. The philoso-/./i/Vf.v, on the con
rary, desire to overturn order and good go
vernment, abuse liberty into licentiousness,
and to make licentiousness a stepping stone to
despotism. Order, good government, and
rue liberty being founded on moralitv and rc
'igion, they endeavour to pick away and de
stroy those foundations, that the whole struc
ure may fall to the ground. The <7.’.7;-philo
phists, therefore, are friends and followers of
the true philosophy. Autr this description,
who that has viewed the conduct of Mr. Jei
tciNon in Hie, can he surprised at his enmity
to ami-phihi'jj'hi.ty? \\ ho that considers him
as endued with common sense, but must be
surprised at his imprudence and hardihood in
avow ing that emnitv ? It is not easy to brin »
ti’.e loose iinohc-rent t-mV.o-r of that gentle
man within a point or view" so close and con
nected to c.t once an ndeemate idea oi
its meaning. .in the part non imucr con; ide
r:it,on lu‘ adverts to the efforts made to meli
orate the condition of the iudit.tis_had he
stoj-.t there he would have tee it intitk-d to the
appl.»n--e oi every considerate person—hut he
dm. , 1,1.1. l'r.,1-1 til.: nciaiMis,!e lireatliine 1..-:
nclicence to an vr.happy porti.:,i of-he human
race, p need under Ins govinerimn, lie sines
into the pane,;!,ietc -ring par:: an of the new,
ctf air,.a lt neariy u.ndcinr.-.cl smd exploded
1 rci.cn /;:• —the vindicator of those
do-.trims which for a time q\ ers, t t:ie human
-min I itsell, am! crushed the late order of
thmgs, that giorions syst m erected in beauty
■ and Virtue by tire wisdom of innumerable • -
h-'s
'*• 1 fueli TO')
ans) /<■ :!' liif'.r
ho implies {.noth
had their intti-r
those ?—Wiio i
ihe.r cnlt-pht.
iinotntT set o
— n ci v ii o ure
■r—hr ctr
v.'ho have been
itiny morality
)i hod, against
teists—the De
^rtlu h Phiiosophists and the y, hole
tribe ol those Devil Doctors of Ultnninism,
ltoiii^ Weischaupt, down to Volney, Ciodwin^
aiel 'loin Paine, whose object \vas to extin
gisti all stn-e of vittucjatid .,!i loose reIijrious
sentiments and persuasion ; v. hi-: h !iad for cen
turies made the consciences oi individuals a
bettei gu.u antee for peace, justice and order,
than all the laws written in the codes of Solon,
Justinian, or British Jurisprudence itself.—
1 he men, or rather monsters, who founded
that sect, and devised ihat svstem of ruin
formed the plan upon principles as miracu
lously cunning, as their views were diabolical
1\ v. irked. 1 he whole has been completely
developed by Abbe Bareuil and Professor
Uobison. 1 he ordinances and rules of it are
too nuiiu rotis for us to detail at present. We
shall, however, mention one or two as pecu
liarly applicable to our present purpose. First,
however, let us put our readers on then* guard
—if they would he sorry to see the objects of
that abominable sect accomplished, let them
read on. If they approve of the objects of
that sect, let them throw the paper out of their
hands, for it will afford them no comfort._
1 he object of the philosophists was this—.
Bj clandestine, deceptive, and fraudulent
means to overturn every government and every
re Hr i on : to /'ring the .sciences of civil life into
contempt: aud to reduce mankind to that im/gi
nanj state of nature, ivhen they lived indepen
dent of each other on the spontaneous producti
ons of the earth.
This has been proved, and this is exactly
the state ot savage life from which the Presi
dent expresses a wish to withdraw the Indi
ans, and regrets the obstacles thrown in the
way of their enlightenment by the influence of
interested and erajty individuals, whom he in
telligibly, though covertly, compares to those
very persons who oppose the plans of the sect
above mentioned, to bring society back again
into a state of sat ageism, how reader mark
this passage—“ It would have been happv for
man (says the high priest of hei!—the hiero
phant ot the illuminati) had he known how
to preserve himself in the primitive state in
which Nature had placed him ! But soon the
unhappy verm developed itself in his heart,
and rest and happiness disappeared. As fa
milies multiplied, the necessary means of sub
sistence began to Jail. The no made or roving
life ceasedi property began ; men chose fixed
habitations ; agriculture brought them toge
ther. Liberty u•as ruined in its' foundations,
and equality disappeared” Such is one part of
the creed ol the diabolical Illuminati—or sect
ot philosophies—at whose enemies (as he
calls them, the anti-philosopliists) Mr. Jeffer
son has so sneered in his speech.
Now let us affix an extract from that speech
ol Mr. Jefferson compare it with that creed.
“ The aboriginal inhabitants of these coun
ti ics I have iv,gardcd with the commiseration
their history inspires. Endowed with the fa
culties and lie rights of men, breathing unar
oi ut love oj libei ty and unit prudence, and cc
cupijing a country which left them no de-ire,
hut to he undistured, the stream of overflow
ing population from other rigions directed it
self on these shores. Without power to di
vert, or habits to contend against it, they have
been overwhelmed by the current, or driven be
fore it. Aow reduced within limits too narrow
for the hunter state, humanity enjoins us to
teach them agriculture and the domestick arts;
to encourage them to that industry which a
lone can enable them to maintain their place in
existence, and to prepare them in time for
that state of society, which, to bodily com
forts, adds the improvement of the niind and
morals. V.*- have, therefore, liberally fur
nished them with the implements of husbandry
and household use ; we have placed among
them instructors in the arts of first necessitv ;
and they arc covered with the segis of the law
against aggressors from among ourselves.”
Now let our readers compare those two; wc
cletv them not to see the unison of sentiment
between them. Tis true, that Mr. Jefferson
proposes to teach them agriculture, & the do
me stick arts. But it is evidently as a thing of
necessity arising from that state of things
which the Illuminee’s creed deplores, and
which he himself seems to regret. “ /?/•>•"*■
mg a love of Uerty% ,.;.d uc flying e. ,*