THE PUBLICK LEDGER.
THE VERY ACE AND BODY OF THE TIME,
HIS FORM AND PRESSURE.
TvEDNESDAY EVENING, MAY 8, 1805.
Virginia Branch Bank . ... It was a wise reso
lution of our vrfsdomoniou« legislature, that of twelve
Directors cf the Norfolk Brandi of the Virginia
J'r.uk, the magical number nine should be elected
from that sect known to be exclusive and genuine
republicans,—‘ men of sound republican principles’—
weil, mark the result. It has pleased the President
«f the United States to apncint Thomas Newton,
Esq. Collet tor of the Customs of this port; and,
consequently, it became necessary to choose in his
stead a President of the Branch Bank. Two gen
tlemen were nominated, Richard E. Lee, Esquire,
and Littleton IV. Tazewell, Esquire; the Direc
tors have voted several times without effect, the
board being divided, and each party adhering, with
Inflexible integrity, to its candidate. The conse
quence of this pertinacity is that the business of the
institution (except the ordinary process of receiving
and paying money) is now at a stand ; yesterday was
discount day, but for want of a President nothing
could be done. The bank has for the present lost
half its title—it is an office of Deposit but not of
Discount.
Sinre the above was composed, we are informed
that Doc.toh VVim.jam B. Ski.dkn has been una
nimously elected a Director, and afterwards Presi
dent of the Office of Discount and Deposit of the
Rar.k of Virginia.
' Schooner Iris, Pearson, of Fredericksburg, left Por
to Rico on her return home April 1. On the 8th in
latitude 27. longitude about 66, she was captured by
the French privateer Musquito, Bernard comman
der, and ordered back to Porto Rico, with only one
of her crew on board—The /liru'ea robbed captains
Pearson, his crew, and the vessel, of every thing
they could remove—abused the captain very much;
stripped, tied up, and severely flogged Mr. Cutter
the mate, and a black man—kept them three days on
board the privateer, until meeting with a brig hound
to Rhode Island, they first plundered the captain
(among otheV tilings of 29.1 dollars), ami then put
captain Pearson, his crew, and several other pri
soners on board.
Brest Fleet—Weltave strong reasons to doubt the
correctness of tire intelligence comumnii oted in out
last respecting the sailing ol the French fleet from
Brest. We received by Ferguson’s packet, the Bal
timore Federal Gazette of Satuaday last, which con
tains Nevv-York dates of May 2: but there is not the
least hint on such a subject, nor is there any mention
of any recent arrival at that place from Kurnpe.
THE LAyTcURATE.
DISCOURSE X.
“ Ir lstni. pr. among von a poor man of one of thy
“ mil r. it n, i Hon shm.t not iiardin tiiy heart
“ NOR SHUT THINE II A N I> FROM TIIY POOR BROTHER”.
When we cast our eyes round the J
world, and note the vast number of those who are
deprived even of the absolute necessaries of life, can
we repress our astonishment at the solecism that
there should he found even one being possessed of a
human form, warmed by blood circulating through a
human heart, who could listen with apathy to, or
turn with indifference from, the petition of the poor,
houseless, child of want!—Yet such there are ; who,
while revelling in all the luxuries that uncounted
■wealth can procure, while satiating their pampered
apetites with every misnamed delicacy which com
merce, or ingenuity, or nature can supply, not only
hear unmoved the bitter groan of poverty, but even
refuse to spare a crumb from their table to preserve
a fellow-creature from perishing. Often has the
moralist descanted on the reciprocal obligations
which unite the family of man ; often has the voice
of the div ine exhorted the Christian votary to the
practice of benevolence ; often has the temple of
the Deity resounded with denunciations against the
hard hearted and avaricious rich, who unfeelingly
“ shut their hand from their poor brother”.—How
ever unworthy to tread in their steps, or to assume
their functions, the Lay-Cuhatk cannot refrain
from joining his voice to theirs. lie has lately visit
ed the dark abode of despair ; with his scanty pit
tance lie has been able to sootli the immediate pangs
of suffering nature. The scene he witnessed has
aroused some reflections, such perhaps as every
sympathetiik miiul must have made, lie would ad
dress them alike to those whose hearts and hands are
ever open to feel and to relieve the wauls of others,
and to those who can contemplate them with savage
callosity :—The one he would exhort to persevere •
the other he would awaken to sense of duty : both he
would encourage by the cheating dictum of God
himself—“ blessed are the merciful, for they shall
obtain mercy !”
Every investigation of the characters
and abilities of mankind, every emotion of the hu
man heart, and every page of the history of civi
lized nations, unite to convince' us that Man is a be
ing formed for society, ar.d deriving from thence his
highest temporal security and happiness. Weak,
destitute, and improvident is the state of infancy :
inconsiderate schemes of pleasure or of fortune en
danger our middle career of life; and, although
leden with infirmities and decrepitude, we are unex
pectedly overtaken by old age. Inconveniences like '
these original'y united man with man, to render and
to receive accommodation and support. They shew
how we are cs (inerted with each other; they
Call forth the et.evg'-os of the soul to mutual ac
tion; they compose, they complete, the mechanism
jt w complicated Games. General wants and re
ciprocal deymdei.ee thus laid the spacious aiid solid
basis of civil society: and there evidently must have
existed in its formation, and will continue until its
decay, a necessity'that we should practice acts of
support, of mercy, and of lienevolcnce to others, who
stand in such need of them ourselves.
Man, as a dependent being, owes
boundless gratitude to the almighty, for implanting
his own darling attribute of Mercy in the human
heart ; and, after the divine example, he owes to
his fellow mortals the exercise of this attribute in
the discharge of the duties of benevolence. Nei
ther intrusive cares, nor indolence, nor negligence,
should stifle the suggestions of duty, nor check
the emanations of conscious virtue. Feeble and help
less while single and unsupported, we scarcely sus
tain a vegetative existence ; but connected by the
hands of mutual necessity and mutual affection, we
embrace, like the clustering vine, the great trunk
of society, and pour forth profusion and comfort to
every object around us. Shall fleeting, shadowy
“ trifles, light as air”, employ the busy mind of man ;
and shall he neglect the cultivation of this heaven
born principle, which attaches itself to his existence,
and is commensurate w ith life and immortality ?
} Every professed Christian, every hea
then moralist, the Jew, the Turk, the infidel, all ad
mit the virtues of benevolence, all proclaim its uni
versality. United to the whole world as brethren,
our charity ought not to be limited to the partial
bounds of consanguinity and country, but should ex
tend to every complexion, religion, and climate ;
encompassing and embracing, like the vaulted arch
of heaven, the whole human race. Does not the
same sun warm us ? Does not the same earth sus
| ta'n us ? We breathe the same air; and the same
firmament spreads its glories around us all !
Nature points cut the mutual connexion; and, the
laws of civility, of reason, anti of revelation, confirm
lier invincible dictates !
The relations of parent and child, of
husband and wife, of rulers and the ruled, must in
evitably perish ;
“ And like the baseless fabrick of a vision
j “ Leave riot a wreck behind—”
The sun may soon be darkened, and the moon with
draw her light 1 soon may the heavens be gathered
up, and the elements melt with fervent heat !
but the endearing bonds of benevolence can never be
dissolved! They will endure the last combustion of
the universe ! Benevolence is connected with time
and with eternity. Tt exhisted in the Godhead at the
formation of the world, and will survive its final de
struction. The consciousness of a life of pious phi
lanthropy, will yield a grateful support in the hour of
sickness ; it will spread joy and serenity around the
bed of death ; it will accompany the believer into
the world of spirits ; and will be a calm pleader for
pardon at the throne of judgment, when God shall
be All in All!
‘ If there be amongyou (gays the meek and
didactick prophet of Mount Sinai j a poor man of one
thy brethren, thou shaltnothardedthy heart, nor shut
thine hand from thy poor brother Can any one
who has ever felt the conscious pleasure of pci form
ing one benevolent action, smother the impulse
of charity or require my feeble excitement for
his perseverance ?—.Who command, who controul,
the respect, the affection, the veneration, of man
kind ? the benevolent and the merciful—Graceful is
the tear of sympathy ! Endearing, elevated, and rap
turous, are the feelings of benevolence ! They adorn
prosperity, and firm the only real superiority deri
vable from wealth, by enabling the affluent to enjoy
the most exquisite refinements of divine sensibility ;
to relieve the wretched, to release the unfortunate,
to support the orphan, to make the widows heart
sing for joy, and to smooth the declining path of de
bilitated age !—1 he actions of benevolence dilate
and expand every sentiment of virtue ! they form a
vital part of our religion, and encircle it with rays
of glory, which render Christianity not only venera
ble hut lovely !
r° perform a duty, and at the same
time to render a fellow-creature happy, might seem
ample compensation ; but actions of benevolence
have still greater rewards : they constitute pleasures
which are not to be limited by the act; they afford
in reflection a fresh delight, a renewed felicity : they
flow back again to that pure fountain from which
they sprang, the human heart, as river* return their
grateful tribute to the parent ocean from whence
their fertilizing streams had been exhaled.
Vet the rights of humanity demand
that the distribution of charity be carefully regulated,
and forbid that it be indiscriminately lavished. We
should examine every claim upon our liberality, so
as to give a proper direction to the current without
interrupting its course. The indolent, the turbulent,
the vicious, the ungrateful, have no claims upon the
Lstjuuij mi uk njmiv-ui, ivji nine is no one exempted
from active duty ; and the chief aim of each indivi
dual should be to discharge that duty, in his particu
lar sphere, with industry, with integrity, and with
honour. They who wilfully fail to perform their al
lotted parts, cannot be entitled to the bounty of the
liberal, to the reward of the industrious, to the
funds of the orphan, of the widow, of the aged, or
ol the unfortunate : such persons are not merely use
less, they are noxious members of the community,
and deserve, like drones, to be expelled from the
hive of society, for pilfering a large portion of its
sweets, while the labour of collecting them devolves
upon others.
Neither should our liberality be preca
rious or indefinite. Accidental bounty is only an ap
proach towards goodness. True benevolence will
search for proper objects. The distresses of the
worthy and virtuous poor seldom obtrude upon pub
lick notice. Innate modesty, humility, and the pain
ful recollection of better days, conceal their wants,
and frequently clothe the face with a faint smile of
contentment, while the heart is corroding with an
guish. VV'e should seek for those who have once en
joy ed, without abusing, the blessingof abundance, who
havr hrreti fore lived in situations of decent compe
tency. but who have been reduced, by the loss of an
hr,abend or a father, hv casualties, by disease, or
by any of the multitude of ills to which we are all
subject ; these we should diligently seek, and em
brace as the first objects of cur bounty.
On the stormy passage of life, how va
rious are the trials and misfortunes which encompass
and distress the mortal voyagers! To some the Al- j
mighty hath distributed a few drops of bitterness from i
I the cup of woe ; to others, he hath allotted the over- j
flowings of tniserv ! Lock into the habitations of do
mestick society ; cio we there behold a single mortal
exempted from sorrow ! lhdar.ee the state of empires ;
how much reason have we to commiserate the nf
fli( tions which render their inhabitants wretched !
How short a tone has elapsed since the convulsions
of other countries, crowded our stieets and cove red
our shores with scenes of naked calamity 1—Wellcan
1 recollect th.c wild and maddening features nt those
want-oppressed fugitives, who fled hither to avoid
the lion out* of a servile war, in a land where mas
sacre and ass assination had long been stalking at
huge; separating friend from friend; tearing hus
bands and parents from their wives and childien.
and rending every tender tie cf affection, of gr iti- |
tude, and humanity.—Well, too, ran 1 recall the
soul pleasing emotions with which 1 btheld the hand
of bcnevolemv; outstretched for their relief; without
lncjniring, in that sad hour, whether their own mis
conduct had had any agency in creating their dis
tresses, the tear was wiped from their eve, and the
soi,thing voice of sympathy spoke peace and comfort
to their gnef-distrac ted nund.
Alas! the scene was not thei e closed!
How many of those forlorn and helpless vieti.ns i>f
savage harbaritv are daily thrown upon our protecti
on ! How m int, dm ing the late season of inclemency,
shuddered and perished beneath the double scourge
°f hunger and of cold! Unused to labour, perhaps un
furnished with the means of being employed, and re
strained by modest pride from the degrading solicita
tion of alms, how many now pine in want and destituti
on ! Bereft of every earthly support, robbed of friends
and of all that rendered life desirable, heart-broken
and disconsolate, they raise the supplicating eye to
heaven, imploring, by a look of silent despair, the
benign power who gave them being, for the scanty
means of supporting it, while it is his pleasure that
it should be borne.
Plead not, ye who have the power
to give, that ye know not where to bestow your
bounties .... Go to the house of mourning ....
“ Expose yourselves to feel what wretches feel,
“ That ye may throw the superflux to them,
*' And shew the heavens more just—”
Explore, w ith secret caution, the mansions of dis
tress .... ye will require no other guide than a
well-intending heart.... it will conduct you to the
residence of yonder forsaken and solitary widow,
who raises her streaming eyes towards her only hope
and stay.—Silent, expressive, eloquent is her grief,
while the assailing cries of infant hunger peirce her
soul with many sorrows!—Now she speaks to her
I naked, starving, little ones!—Hark ! Listen to her
| mournful accents !—“ Alas! my children, I have
| neither food to protract your comfortless existence,
nor raiment to guard your shivering bodies from the
weather!—Your father is gone forever! Death hath
blasted every opening prospect ; and a cold, unpity
ing world is open before us !—Hush! Hush ! my ten
der, helpless, innocents!—Shame, and the dread ct
the harsh frown of the unfeeling, shall no longer
restrain me .... I will raise aloud the voice of
wretchedness; 1 will plead for protection in the
sanctuary of the Almighty ; until compassion melt the
soul to mercy !”—
Have pity upon her, ye who arc in af
fluence ! every child of humanity have pity upon her !
for she is old, and poor, and full woes! the hand
of God hath pressed sore upon her!—Shall she plead
to Christians thus, and shall she not be heard ?—O
cherish the sacred flame of mercy, and let a god-like
ardour in the cause of the unhappy, glow within your
bosoms! Distinguished among the children of the
world by peculiar bounties of Providence, be no less
distinguished by acts of munificence and we’.Ldirected
liberality. Be not contented with negative or acci
dental charity; extend your search after the suffer
ing; visit the habitations of want; speak consolation
to the heart, and wipe the tear from the cheek of
misery ?—So shall the blessing of those who are rea
day to perish come upon you; and the prayers of the
aged, the widow, and the fatherless, be offered up,
in sincerity, for your earthly prosperity, and for your
reception into those realms of blessedness, where
good actions, proceeding from virtuous motives, have
their sure and everlasting reward.
A LAY-CURATE.
We see in the papers by the mail nothing of mo
ment—A report was brought to Philadelphia of the
arrival of Graves in the West-Indies—this we do
not believe.
From the Charleston Courier, April 4.
THE INAUGURAL SPEECH.
No. VII.
Woe unto imm that striveth with his
Maker! Let the Potsherd strive with
the Potsherds of the earth. Shall the
CLAY SAY TO HIM THAT FASHIONED IT, WHAT
MAKEST THOU? OR THY WORK, HE HATH NO
hands! Isaiah, VIII, 21.
One might natur&lly enough imagine that,
under the influence of intended prudence, and
for the very same reasons for which he did not
permit hitr.sef to mention Tripoli in his speech,
the President would not have permitted himselj
to utter the very sound of religion, or to start
an echo from that drum, on which he has been
beating the French march for so many years.
Here his prudence either seems to have forsa
ken him, or by a perversion, to which most of
the operations of his judgment are singularly
And now we shall be obliged to any of our
readers who will tell us which of the previous
iorms is intended as the antecedent to rela
tive it. So many curious instances of inno
vation on grammar have occurred in our gen
tleman’s writings (by way of experiment it is
presumed) that we cannot be assured whether
he does not mean to make the singular word
it, agree with some one, or even all, of the
plural antecedents ; we will therefore try the
sentence both by singulars and plurals. Is
u matters of religion” the antecedent?—then
he must mean this “ I have undertaken, bn
no occasion, to prescribe the religious exer
cises, suited to matters of religion.” Is it
“ religion” itself relieved from its “ matters”?
—this has some likelihood ; because religion
becomes in five words after, the antecedent
to the genetive its—Religion however being
a kind of generick word, including a multitude
ol distinct species or forms under it, we ima
gine it would be rather above even his com
prehension and great mind to prescribe exer
cises suited to it. A large folio volume for
every unnecessary word he has written (lack
a-daisy !) would not contain in short hand, half
the exercises which would satisfy the Brnml.
nival species alone—not to talk of the Christi
an, the Mahomedan, and the n^at simple re
iahle, is, as in the omission.of IVij-oIi, of that
inauspicious kind whit h ptoduccs all the- ef
fects of indiscretion. From‘die tenour of the
speech—from the forced introduction of ex
otick topicks—from the ddhtsivc expansion of
ihose topicks, by useless, laboured “ some
things , misnamed thoughts,” and hv the frip
peries of verbiage, (those shadows of nonen
tities, w!iiih !!•(,.■ er:i heads, with the
aid of a farthing light, play upon the white
sheet-—the tciru'a rose—'lie blank, ol w ettk.
minds) w e could directly perceive dial he w s
at a loss ior something to say, vchi; h would'
look well upon piper : Me, not reflecting tints
brevitj is the soul ol state writings, and that
to /./■ particularly, the maxim of the poet is
pet uliai ly applicable,
He Jure, my the U'am/ernig song ;
.-•/ tale ■>/<. uLl rule)- he ton iot/g.
Prior's Paulo Purgaiiti.
being thus at a loss, ami, in his ow n apprehen
sion, bound to s.tv something, though unim
portant and irrelevant, because lie chose to
decline sa\ mg that which it was important,
and indeed incumbent on him to s.t\_he
'.twe.iupon religion—,.t.d we will give bis
woids—
In matters ot religion, 1 Lave considered
u tli it its five cxt ti’i'A! is placed h\ the con
“ siiuuion, independent of die powers ol' the
4“ ic nei;\ 1 government. 1 have therefore un
“ deriukc-n, ut no icca-tua, to prescribe the
“ religious exercises suited to it; hut have
hit llu in, as die i ei'snuii u >n found them,
“ tinder the direction and discipline oi the
stale' or church authorities, at knowledge ti
“ by the several religious so i, ,.M
Nov.-, re a c lets, let us i onsidtr what the
minim itiloiauation is that lie has given to
Congitss and the publick, in this notable «.f
Jn.sion ot stlf-conscqucncc. He teds’.ou, in
the first place, that the ftee exert: ise of religion
is placed by tin* < (institution huh pc iult nt f
the powers ot the general government—*=>.
deed!—One would think, however,, that he
might have trusted to Congress to find out
that sec ret themselves—For our part, we be
lieve that it is one which was known long ago
to many. “ There needed no Chest :o come
from the grave to tell that to Congress.” It
might have been an amendment to die passage
to have signified whether that is one of those
parts ot the constitution which lie disapproves,
and whether lie has any intention, through the
agency of his friends, Randolph and Nichol
son, to move for an amendment of it so far_
anil w hat the nature of his desired amendment
would he—whether to confine it to one sect_
Illuminati—and erect Nature or Keuson into a
Deity;—or to have no Deity at all. Those
gentlemen would, no doubt, lie in this, as
they are in other things, his most obedient,
devoted, and faithiui, humble servants_.
Having told the Congress that the constituti
on gives free exercise to religion, independent
ot government, he next gives a proof of his
great and truly democratic k condescension,
in not violating that part of the constitution.
I hav •, t/ur.Jore, (says he) undtrlaken, on no
occasion, to prescribe the religious exercises
suited to it.
Now, let us examine this sentence, not
wiih that unw orthy spirit which determines to
tmd faults, whether any exist or not, but with
the eve ot cold, impartial criticism, founded
oil the words.
I lie first thing that strikes us, in this non
smh passage, is the magnitude, and extraor
dinary quality ot his undertaking. “ / have
undertaken,” say s the Great Alan—It is really
worth our readers w hile to attend to the beau
tv ot this “ negiilice-positivt"—'I his undertak
ing, so like poor old vexed King Lear’s talk
oi vengeance—
“ I will do such things—
IVhat they arc yet 1 know not; but they shall be
The terrours oj the liar/h
“ I have undertaken”—what?—Why, “On
no occasion”—V* hat a little undertaking, for
so Great a Alan!—“ to prescribe the religious
exercise.” . In a tragedy or a comedy, but
stiil more in a facet—a surprise is a great
thing. Aware of this, our President leads his
auditors to the very brink of expectation.—
I have undertaken,” says he ; but no sooner
have they got so tar, when, behold ! the ne
gative puff, “ on no occasiongapes—pop,
before them, like those old fashioned fences,
commonly, called Hahahs, pregnant with sur
piise—pregnant with disappointment—and
not less pregnant with danger, to the purblind
and unwary. Ihis is a new feather in the
stj le-cap of our President.