Pocten.
TIHE DAY IS GONE.
BY LONGFELLOW,
The day is gone, and the darkness
Falls from the vin‘ of Night,
As a feather is wafted downward
From an eagle in his flight.
I see the lights of the village
Gleam throngh the rain and mist,
And a feeling of sadnoss comes o’er me,
That my svul cannot resist !
A feeling of sadness and longin,
Tha is not akin to pain, -
And resembles sorrow only .
As the mist resembles the rain.
Come read to me some poem,
Some simple and heartfelt lay,
That shall soothe this restless feeling,
And banish the thougiits of day.
No' f om the grand old masters,
Not from the bards sublime,
Whaose distant footsteps echo
Through the corridors of Time.
For like strains of martial music,
‘Their mighty thoughts snggest
Life’s endless toil and endeavor;
And to-night I long to rest.
Read from: some humbler poet,
~ Whose song gushed from his heart,
As showers from the clouds of summer,
Or tears from the eyelids start.
Whe, through long days of labor,
A d nights devoid of ease,
Sull heard in his soul the music
Of wondrous inelodies,
Such songs have power to quiet
The restless puise of care,
And come like the benediction
That fo lows after prayer.
Then read the treasured volume,
The poem of thy choice,
And lend to the rhyme of the poet
The beauty of thy veice.
And the night shall be filled with music,
And the cares that infest the day,
Shall fold their tents, like the Arabs,
Aud as silently pass away.
MAN'S WORK SHALL FOLLOW HIM.
BY JOHMN G. WHITTIER.
We shape, ourselves, the joy or fear,
Of which the coming hfe is made,
And 61l our future’s atmosphore
With sunshine or with shade.
The tissue of the life to e,
We weave with colors all our own,
And in the field of Destiny
We reap as we have sown,
&¢il! shall the sonl around it call
The shadows which it gathered here
And painted on the etern4l wall
The past shall reappear.
For there we live onr life again—
Or wanuly toched, or coldly dim,
The pictures of the past remain
Man’s work shall follow him !
Miscellany.
The Student and the Bully:
OR, THE COWARD UNMASKED.
BY THEODORE S. FAY.
I have mysell, sard Krentzner, witnessed
many duels; but we are not se Lloodihirsty,
generally spesking, as you moral Americans.
We usnally setide these mstters with a sword,
a better method, by the way, and more worthy
of a soldier, than your cold murderous pistol
frinz. Any poliroon may pull a trigger, but
ttrequires the firm hond and steady eye of a
man to manage the steel. However, as [ was
at Jena. they called each other out as beaux
and belles 1o a dance. [t was the treading on
a toe—tiie brushing of an elbow ; pay, an ac
cidental look that fell on them when they
wished net ohservation, and the next hour
there wis aclashing ol steel and the stamping
of feet upon the grecu sward. and the kindling
and flashing of fiery eyes—a plunge and par
vy, cut and thrast. till one or both lay stietch
ed 2t lengih ;: the scull cleft down, or a hand
off. and the blood Hubtling forth fike a riil of
mountain water. There were more than one
of those fellows—devils, I must say—who
when they (ound amoag them some sirange
student. timid or retired, with whose charac
ter they were not acquainted, or whose cour
age they donbted, would pass the biet of mere
sport, brush his skirt, ch wge the offence up
on him. demand an apolozy too humble for a
hare, and dismiss him from the adventure only
with an open shoulder, or by daylight through
bis betlv.
There was among us 2 fellow named Mentz,
who assumed and wore with impunity, the
character of hiead bully. [le was foremost in
all bis deviliry. [his pisiol was death, and
his broadsword cut like the scissors of (ate.—
1t was curious to see the fellow fire—one, twe,
three, and geod bye to his autagenist. sis
friendship was courted by all ; for to be his
enemy was to liein a bloody grave. Atlength,
grown fearless of heing calied to an acconut,
he took pride in insulling strangers, and even
women. His appeirance was formidable; a
great burly giaut, with shaggy black hair,
huge whiskers, and grim meustaches three
inches long, twirled under his-nese! A sort
of Yeauty he had, too: and among the women,
heaven help us, wherever those moustachies
showed themselves, every oppcueant abandoned
the ground. It was at last really dangerous
‘to have asweetheart; fur out of pure bravado,
Mentz would push forward and make love to
a lady, frighten her swain, and either terrify
or fascinate hersell. Should the doomed lov
er offer resistance, he hal no more to do than
to call a surgeon ; and happy enough re con
sidere ] himsell il he escapcd with the lose
of a toeth or an eve. He had-killed{our men
who had never injared him, wounded seven
teen and fougl:t twenty duels. He once chal
lenged a whole ¢lub who had black-balled him
anooymously, and was pacified only by being
ve-admitted, though all the members imme
diately resigned, and the club was broken up.
At last there came a youth into the univer
sity—slender, quiet and boyish levking, with a
handsome [ice, though somewhat pale. His
demeanor, theugh generally ehe, was noble
and sell possessed. He had been but a short
time amorg us, however, before he was set
down as a.cowardly creature, and prime game
for the ‘devils broke lcose,’ as the gang of
Meoiz termed themselves The coy youth
shunaed all the riots and revels of the univer
sity—iosulted no one; and if his mantle brush
ed agaiust that of another, apologized imme
diately, so gracefully and so gemly, that the
devil Limsell could not have fixed a quarrel
gpon him. Now it appeared, too, that Ger
trude, the lovely daughter of the Baron de
Salle, the toast of all the country, upon whom
most of us had gazed as on something quite
above ue ; it seoe appeared that the girl loved
the youthful stranger. Now Meniz had
singled Gertrude out for himself, and avowed
his preference publiciy. Arnold, for thus was
the young siudent called, was rarely, if ever,
temnpted 10 our leasis—but once he came un
expectédly on a casual invitation. To the
great surprise and disgust of the company.
Meniz himself was tliere, and seated himse
wudached at the table, though an unbidder
guest. The strongest cuviosity at once arose
to witness the result; for Mentz had sworn
that he would compel Arnold, on their first
meeting, to beg pardon on his knees for the
audacity of baving addressed his mistress.—
Jt had uot appeared that Arnold knew anything
of Meniz's characier, for he sat cheerfully
and gaily at the board, with so much the man
vers of a high Sorn gentiemaa, that every one
admitted at once bis goodness, Lis grace, and
bisbeauty, andregretted the abyss on the brink
of which he stood.
*What, ho!" at Jlength shouted Mentz, as
the evening had a linde advaneed, snd the
wine began to mouunt, ‘a toast! come, drink
i all; and he who refuses is a poltroon and a
coward. lqualfihis goblet—fil to to the brim
—to the healthi and happiness of Gerirude de
Salle, the fairest of the faic! Who says he
knows a fairer is a black liar, and [ will write
the word on his forehead with a red hot brand.’
Every goblet was emptied but one, which
stond uotasted—untouched. On perceiving
this, the ruffiao ieaned forward, fixed his eye
on the cup, stroek his brawny hand down
fiercely on the table, which returned a thun
dering crash and rattle, and then repeated, in
% voice busky with rage;
*There is a cup full ; by St. Anthony I will
make the ownerswallow its measure of molten
lead if it remain one instant longer !
*Drink it, Arnold, drink it. boy ; keep thy
hand out of useless broi's ; whispered astudeunt
vear him, rather advanced in age.
*Drink (riend," muttered another, drily, ‘or
he will not be so slow in doing his threat, [
promise thee.’
*Empty the cup, man!" cried athird ; nev
er frown and turn pale, or thy young head
will lie lower than thy feet ere to-morrow's
sunset.’
‘lt is Mentz the duelist," said a fourth.—
‘Dostthou know his wondrous skill ! He will
kill thee as if thou wert adeer, if thou oppose
him in his wine. eis more merciless than
a wild boar. Drink, man, drink 7’
During this interesting scene, the youth had
remained motiouless, cool and silent. A slight
pallor, but more of indignation than fear, came
over his handsome features ; and his eyes, di
lated with emoticno, rested full and firm upon
Mentz. "
‘By the mass, gentlemen!" he said, at length,
*l am a stranger here, and ignorant of the
manners prevalent in universities, but il yon
ler person he sane, and this no joke—"'
‘Joke !" thundered Mentz foaming at the
lips.
‘[ must tell vou that 1 came from a part of
the country where we neither give nor take
such jokes or insults.’
*Hast thou taken leave of thy friends 7’ said
Mentz, partly hushed by astonishment; art
thou tired of life, that thou hurriest on so
blindly a bloody pillow ? Boy! drink, as |
have told thee. to Gertrude, the fairest of the
of the fair, and bis huge round eyes opened
like those of a Yull upon his darling victim.
*T'hat Gertrude de Salle is fair and lovely,’
said the youth rising, *‘may not be denied by
me. But I demand by what mischance I find
her nawme this night common at a board of ri
oters, and pelliuted by the lips of a drunkard
ind a ruffian
‘By the bones of my father!" said Mentz in
a tone of deep and dire anger which had, ere
then, appalled many a stout heart, *by the
bones of my father, your doom is sealed. Be
your blood upen your own head. But,’ said
he, observing the youth, who. instead of cow
ering, bore himself more lofiily, ‘what folly is
this ? Drink, lad, and | hurt thee not! 1
love thy gallant bearing, and my game is not
such as theu.’
He added this with a wavering manner
which had never before beea witnessed in him,
for never had he heen opposed so calmly and
so fiercely : and for a moment he quailed be
neath the fiery glances darted at him from one
he supposed meeker thanadove. Butashum
ed of h:s wwansient fear he added:
*‘Come 10 nre. poor child! Bring with thee
ihy goblet—bend at my feet—quall it as |
have said, and, out of pity, [ spare thy young
head.’
\What was the astonishment of the company
on beholding Arnol!l, asif effectually awed by
4 moment's reflection, and the ferocious en
mity of so celebrated and deadly a foe, actually
do as he was commanded. He rose, tool the
cup, slowly approached the s2at of his foe,
knelt and raised the rimto his lips. Murmurs
of ‘shame, shame, poiireon, coward!” came
out loud and thick from the group of specta
tors, who had arisen inthe excitement of their
curiosity, stood eagerly bending forward with
every eye fixed upon the object of their con
tempt. A grim smile of savage trinmph dis
‘oried the feaiures of Mentz, whoshouted with
1 livarse and drunken langh.
Aruold, however, only raised the rim to his
lips, and waited a moments' silence with an
expression so scornful and composed that the
hisses and exclamations were aggin quelled.
When every sound had ceased ro adead silence,
he said::
‘Never shall 1 cease to drink tothe glory of
a name [ once loved and honored—Gertrude,
thie fairest of the fair! But,” he added sud
denly rising and drawing up his figure with a
dignity that silenced every breath, *for thee,
thou diuuken, bragging {oelish beast ! [ spit
upon— defy thee! and thus be punished thy
orutal inselence and stupid presumpiion.’
As he snoke he dashed the contents of the
ample goblet full i the face of Mentz; and
then, with all his strength, he hurled the mas
sy goblet ut the same mark. The giant reel
ed and staggered a few paces back ; amid the
shiniug liguor on his drenched clothes and
dripping {eatures, a stream of blood was ob
served to trickle down his features.
Never before was popular opinion more
suddenly and violeatly reversed. The object
of their vilest execraiions flashed upon them
with the immediate brichtness of a superior
being. A loud and irrepressible burst of ap
plause broke from every lip, till the broad and
heavy rafters above their lseads and the very
foundation of the floor shook and wrembled-
Butthe peal of joy and approbation soon ceas
ed ; for though this inspiring drama had so
nobly commenced, it was uncertain how 1t
wight termmate. Lefore the tyrant lecover
ed from the stunned and bewildered trance
into which the blow, combined with shame,
grief, astonishment, acd deunkeuness. had
thrown lim, several voices, after the obstrep
erous calls for silence usaalon such occasious,
addressed the youth who stood cool and erect,
with folded arms, awaiting the course of events.
*‘Bravo, Arnold! Noble, Arnold! A gal
lant deed ! The blood of a true gentlewman is
in his veins !’
‘But, canst thou fight " eried one.
‘1 am only a simple student, and an artist
by profession. 1 have devoted myseli to the
pencil—aot the sword.”
‘But thou caast use it a litile, canst not?’
asked another.
‘But indifferently,” answered the youth.
‘And hew art thou with a pistel 7’ demand
ed a th'rd.
*My hand is unpractised.” replied Arnold.
‘I have no skill ia shedding human blood.’
‘For heavem! then, rash boy, what hus
tempted thee to this fatal extremity ?’
‘Hatred of oppression.’ replied the vouth,
‘in all its forms : and a willingness to die rath
er than to submit to insult.’
*‘Die then thou shalt, and that ere to-mor
row’s sunset !" thundered Mentz, starting up
in phrenzy, and with a hoarse and broken
voice that made the hearts of the hearers shud
der, as if at the howl of a dog or demon. ‘I
challenge thee to mortal combat.’
*And [ accept the challenge.’
‘lt is lor thee to name time, place and weap
on; but as thou lovest me, let it not be longer
than to-morrow night, or I shall burst with
rage and impatience.’ <
*l love thee act, base dog!" replied Arnold,
‘but thou shall not die so inglorious 2 death.
[ will fight thee, therefore, to-night.’
‘By heaven, boy !" cried Mentz more and
more surpiised, ‘thou art in haste to sup in
hell !* and the ruffian lowered hisvoice. ‘*Art
thou mad
‘Be that my chance,’ answered Arnold; ‘I
shall not be likely to meet even ic: he!ll a com
panion cg bratal as thou—~unless, which I
meau shall be the case, thou bear me com
pany.’
*To wight then be it,* said Mentz; ‘though
to-night my hand is not steady ; for wine and
anger are no friends 10 the nerves.’
*Dost thou refuse me, then ' demanded the
youth with a sneer.
‘By the maes. no; but to-night is dark, the
moon is down, the stars are clouwded, and the
winds go by in heavy puffs and gusts; bLear it
even now.'
*Therefore,” said the youth, apparently
more composed as his fierce rival grew more
percept.bly agitated, ‘therefore we will lay
down our hves here, in this hall, on this spot,
on thig instant, even as thou standest now.’
*“T'here is no one here who will be iny friend,’
said Mentz. so evidently sobered and subdued
by the singular composure and sell-poesession
of his anatagonist, that all present held him in
contempt, and no one stirred.
*No matter,’ said Arnold, ‘I will myself fore
go the same privelege.’
*And your weapors,’ said Mentz.
‘Are here,’ replie) Arnold, drawing them
from his bosom ; *a surer pair never drew
blood. The choice is yours.'
T'he company began now to (ancy that Ar
nuld had equivocated in disclaiming his skill
as a duelist ; and from his invincible compos
ure, thought him a more fatal master of the
weapon than the buily himself. The lauer
also partook of this epinion.
*Young man,” said Mentz, in avoice cloud
ed and low ; buthe stopped and said vo farther.
*Your chioice,” said Arnoid, presenting the
|)l!|u's.
Mentz seized one desperately, and said :
) *Now vame your distance,’
*Blood-thirsty wolf!" said Aroold, *there
shall be no distance.” He then turued und
addressed the company :
*Gentlemen,’ said he, *‘deem me not either
savage or insane, that [ sacrifice myseifl and
this brutal wretch thus before your eyes, and
to certain and iusizut destruction. For one |
confess | have no value in life. er whom |
loved | have sworn to lorget, and if 1 existed
a thousand years. should never probably see
her again. This rufiian is a coward, and fears
to die ; though he does not fear daily to merit
death. 1 hav> long heard of his baseness,
and regard him as an assassin—the enemy of
the human race and of God; a dangerous
beast, whom it will be a virtue and a merey to
destroy. My owa life [ would well be rid of.
but would not fling it away idly when the loss
may be made subservient to the destruction
of vice and the reiief of humanity. Here,
then, I yield my breath ; and here, too, this
trembling and shrinkinng craven shall close
his course of debauchery and murder. My
compaions, farewell; should any of vou kere
alter chance to meet Gertrude De Salle, tell
her [ nobly flung away a lile which her false
hood made me despise. Aund now recreunt,’
he said in a fierce tone, turning suddenly to
wards Meniz, ‘plant thy pistol in my bosom
‘as | will plint mine to thine. Let one of the
‘company cry one, two, three, and the third
‘number shall be the signal to fire.’
Wi h increased paleness in his countenance,
but with even more ferocity and firmness, Ar
nold drew off his cap, displaying his high brow
and glossy ringl-Is. His lips were closed
and firm ; and his eyes, which glistcned with
a deadly glere, were fixed on Meniz. Hethen
placed himself in an attitude of firing. broad
ened his exposed chest full before his foe, and
with a stamp of fury and impatience raised his
weapon. The brow-beaten bully attempted
to do the same; but the pistol held loosely in
his grasp, whether by accident or inteution,
went off belere the signal. lts contents pass
ing through the garments of Arnold, who lev
eling the muzzle of his own, cried calmly, *On
vour knees, base slave ! vile dag! down, or
you die !’ |
Unable any longer to support his name, the
unmasked coward sunk on both his kneesaond |
praved with right earnest vehemence. Again
wild shouts of apj:iiuse and delight, and peals
of rivtous laughter stunned his ears. As he
rose from his hunnhatiog posture. Arnold
touched him contempjuously with his foot.—
Groans and hisses now began to be ‘mingled
with several missiles. Mentz covered his face
with his hands and rushed from the room.—
tle never was seen subsequently among us.
A few words will close my story. Arnold |
became at once the fivorite of all; recanted
his vow ; the fiir Gertrude was rrcnuciled,“
and ere a twelve-month had passed he led her !
to the altar.
Fiviav Love UsexpPecTEDLY REWARDFD.
—A curious circumsctance is related in a late
vumber of Galignam, as having occurred be
fore the Correctional Tribunal.
A very old miin named Palgois, half para
lysed, having been charged with mendicny,
a decently-dressed. modest looking voung girl
stepped forward, said he was her father, and
requested that he should be given up 10 her,
‘But has the old man any means of exist
ence P gaid the President.
*The proceeds ol my labor,” answered thee
girl.
*But you must earn very little.’
‘Pardon, sir, I am very active, and by be
ginning to work early and leaving oft’ late, |
can manage. sit nat so, mother !’ she ad
ced, turning to her old mother, who was also
present.
"~ The president paid a high compliment to
the girl, who only responded by adeep blush;
and she joyfully 100 k her father by the hand
to lead him awav. The public prosecutor
then rose, and asked the old man if he were
not from Biune, in the department of the
Cote d Or, and reiated tosome lurge farmers.
Having been answered in the affirmative, he
stated that the Prefect of Police had forward
ed aletterfrom the mavor of Baune, announc
ing that a rich relnive of the old man had just
died. and left him all his fortune.
*You see, mademoiselle,’ said the President
to the young work woman, ‘that heaven has
already recompensed the filial love of which
you have giveu so striking a proof’
E~xemies.—i.ve vouenemies? Gostraight
on and mind them not. 1f they bloek up your
path, walk round them, and do your duty re
gardless ol their spite. A mman who has got
no enemies is seljom good for anything—he
is made of that kind of material which i 3 so
easily worked, that every one has Lis hand in
it. A sterling character, one who thinks fur
himself, and speaks what he thioks, is always
sure to have enemics. They ure necessary to
him as fresh air; they keep him alive and ac
tive. A celebrated character, who was sur
rounded by'enemies used to remark : *‘They
are sparks, which if you do not blow, will go
out of themselves." Let this be your feeling,
while endeavoring to live down the scandal of
those who are bitter against you. If you stop
to dispute, you do but as they desire, and open
the way for more abuse. Let the poor fel
lows talk—there will be a re-action, if you
perform your duty, and hundreds who were
once alienated from you, wiil flock to you and
acknowledge their error.
A Durcuman’s Bov.—A Dutchman up at
Scaughticoke, by the name of Kendrick, had
a son by the name of Jacob, or Yaupy, as the
Dutch usually eall it, with whose education
he had taken much pains, instructing him in
«all the rudiments of good breeding. &c., until
he became satisfied that his boy Yaupy was
a perfect patcern of obedience and good man
ners; and he took every occasicn 10 show off
Youpy's accomplishments, and sound his
praises among his neighbors. He said that
*Yaupy had more larnin’ den most all de boys
in de school; he can read through all the
spelling book, and spell through all de read
ing books, and coeuld tell all de pictures ia de
big Bible.’ "
Keundrick wasvisited one day by his domini,
who culled to inquire into the state of his
moral and religious affiirs, and to give in
struction to his family. Kendrick, thinking
it a good opportanity to show off his paragon
of a son, and wishing, at the same time, to be
kind and civil to his domioi, cailed out to
his boy in an adjoiniog room :
~ Yaupy, vou go down in de cellar, and draw
de tomini a bitcher of citer ; but—"
*Go to the tevil, father," said Yaupy, ‘and
draw the cider yourself; you know where it
is as well as [ do.’
Thiswas rather a stumperto poor Kendrick ;
but being unwilling that his domini should go
away with an unfavorable impression of
Yaupy's manners, undertook to apologise for
him.
‘Tomini,’ said he, *dat is von of de best lit
tle poys | ever seed in my life: but he has
got a very bad cold now "—=N. Y. Allas.
Tae Ear.—The human earis so extremely
sensible, that it can hear asound that lasts only
the twenty-four thousandth part of a secend.
ENVELOPES FOR MARRIAGE CARDS,
Tﬂ E subscriber has just rec’d a gtnt variety of silv
spring and silver ornamented Envclopes, of the bes
qulli:{, suitable for wedding cards.
Parisian en.bossed edge N'ou Paper, with lgund envel§
opes to match ; Marion’s Note, Letter and Billet Paper,)
with gilt and plain edges ; colored edge Envelopes and pa |
per; black edge Letter and Note Paper, with Envelopes.
Wedding Cake doxes, Transparent and Cameo Wafers,
with a general assortment of Parisian Fauncy Stationery.
For sale by the quantity or reta |, at low prices.
di2 GEO. [I. WHITNEY, 3 Westminster st.
BOOKS.
THE Miscellaneous Works of Oliver Goldsmith, includ
ing a variet: of pieces now first collected, by James
Prior, in 4 vols., vol | rec’d.
‘t'he Neighbors, a story of every day life, by Frederika
Bremer, tran<lted from the Swedish, by Mary Howitt, re
ceived and for sale by
di2 GEO. H. WHITNEY, 3 Westinins er st.
THE BOSTON ALMANAC FOR 1850,
CONTAINI.\'G a map of the New England States, a
complete business directory, a memorandum for every
month in the year, and many other useful tables, for sale
by the duzen or single copy b
dls GEO. H. WHI';NEY, 3 Westminster st.
GET A BOOK.
'l‘ HE cheapest amusement in the world is the perusal of
good books. WINSOR, 140 Westminster st, will sup
ply vou with any of the choice publications of che day.
Greenwoud’s Leaves, a collection of Sketches and Let
ters, by Grace Greenwood.
Shirley—a Tale—by Currer Rell, anthor of Jane Eyre.
The Golden Calf, or Prodigality and Speculatian in the
Nineteenth Century.
Hearts and Homes, or Social Distinctions. A story by
Mrs. Ellis, 2 vols.
Me -oirs of Wm. Wirt, by John P. Kennedy.
Modern Vassal, a story of Poiand, by John Wilmer.
Hawk’s Egvpt.
Lvnch’s Dead Sea Expedition.
dl2 LABAN W. WINSOR, 140 Westminster st.
CARSON'S PAPER.
LET’I‘ER and Foolscap Paper, trom the celebrated man
ufactory of Carson & Brothers, Old Berkshire, for sale
very low by the ream or quire at 140 Westminster st, by
dis LABAN W. WINSOR.
BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATED EDITIONS.
'l\u E History of Ras:elas, Prince of Abisinia, a tale.
L The Vision of Theodore. . s
The Fountains, a fair 7 tale, by Samuel Johnson, LL. D.,
with remarks on the writings and character of Dr. John
son, embellished with illumina'ionsand engravings in tint,
from original desizns by Eevereux.
The Life of Christ, delineated in the series of event- re
corded in the New Testament, by Rev. H. Ha<tings Weld,
embellished with illustrations in tint and illuminations
from original drawings by Devereux.
Paul and Virginia, by Bernardin St. Pierre, with a me
moir of the author, beautifully illustrated and embellished
with engravings and illuminati ns, &c.
Vicar of Wakefield, a tale, by Oliver Goldsmith, with
ten engravings in tint and two illuminations, uniform with
Paul and Virginia, for sule by
dl5 WEEDEN & PEEK, cor 8. Main and College sts.
ALMANACS FOR 1850.
BO:‘TON Alinanac for 1850; American Almanac for
1850 ; Marsh’s Diaries of all sizes and styles for 1850 ;
Diaries and Almanacs, of various kinds. a general assort
ment, for sale by WEEDEN & PEEK, 2 S. Main st.
GOOD MANNERS.
THB Well Bred Boy and Girl, or New School of Good
M nners.
‘T'he Story of Stories, or Fun for the Little Ones.
Poems and Prose Writings, by Richard Henry Dana, in
2 vols, just published and for sale by
dls GLADDING & PROUD.
SELF LOVE,
BY Robert Cushman, 1621, “‘the first sermon preached
in New England, and the oldest extant ot any deliver
ed in America, with the autograghs of some of the Pilgrim
Fathers, for sale by GLADDING & PROUD.
LADY’'S BOOK FOR 1850.
TIIE January number is received which commences the
new volume. Subscriptions solicited at the lowest
price, by GLADDING & PROUD, 21 Westminster st.
HOLIDAY PRESENTS.
THE most ugeful holivay present ever published in this
country is the Bouquet of Melody for 1850, a collection
of songs, duetts, waitzes, polkas, and quadrilles, written
expressly for this work and never before published, com
posed and arranged by the most ce'ebrated American con
posers. The music is within the capacity of ordinary play
ers. The most fastiluous musician could not in any way
find fault with the compositions. It is unlike most annu
als, which, after one perusal, are thrown aside, or kept as
a mere «:nament for the centre tahle. It isa work that
will be of use for years. The elegant style in witich this
waork is got up will claim for it a place amnn{ the works
of taste and beauty. Call and examine at LELAND'S
Music S.ore. dl2
LINEN GOODS.
(’ﬂ F. GLADDING & CO. have just rec’d extra fine
¥ . and common qualities Irish Linen Sheetings, 98, 5-4
and 6-4 Pillow Linens; fine undiessed Shirting Linens;
extra fine do, for collars, &c ; fine white Linen Damask
Table Cloths, Napkins and Doylies; Linen Damasks, of
various widths and qualities, by the yard ; heavy Russia
Linen Damasks; browun do; heavy brown Damasks for
floor cloths ; Stair Linens ; Russia,Scotch and Huckerbuck
Diapers, of varions qualities ; Russ«ia and Scotch Crash ;
pink plaid Grass Towelling ; fine Irish Birdseye Diapers,
with a great variety of other Linen Goods all warranted
pure linen, for sale at the lowest possible prices at 35 North
Main st. a 2
BROADCLOTHS, &c.
(‘ER\I:\NI AND FRENCH BLACK BROADCLOTHS,
X #c.—G. F. Grappive & Co. have -ec’d an assortm ‘nt
of the above superior Cloths, Yought at reduced prices ; al
so fancy colored Cloths of Foreign and America« manu
facture, far sale very cheap, at 35 North Main st. dl2
RIBBONS.
LA DIES, do not fail of taking vour chances in the great
raush at COOPER’S. Doautiful assortment of Ribbons
selling at eost. Milliners will find some rich patterns for
trimming satins and velvets; also, velvet embossed Rib.
bons and Cofls. 63 Westminster st. dis
VELVET RIBBONS AND CUFFS.
;\ BEAUTIFUL assorunent, at COOPER’S, 63 \West
-4N einstor st di?
CURTAIN MUSLINS, TABLECOVERS. &c.
JI'ST re eived at COOPER S one price store, many new
styles Curtain Muslins, 'l'able Covers, Linans, Damasks,
&ec, selling very cheap. €3 Westminster st. dl2
CRUSSELS CARPETINGS.
GEO. E. WILLIAMS & CO. offer for sale Brussels Car
petings at a very low price, (receifed from New York
auctions.) Exchange Building, Westminster st. dl2
STAIR CARPETINGS.
GEO. E. WILLIAMS & CO. have in store a few pieces
of Stair Carpetings, in new designs. Exchange Build
ing, Westminster st.
Also, Stair Rods, in expensive and common kinds. dl2
OIL CARPETS.
OIL Carpets, heavy and wide, in new designs, for halls,
offic3s, &c. GEO. E. WILLIAMS & CO,
Exchan e Building, Westminster st.
Also, cases of medinm and common Oil Carpets, in nar
row widths. di2
GENTLEMEN'S FURNISHING GOODS.
J’ L. KIMBALL, 17 Westminster st, offers for sale an
« extensive stock of fine Shirts ; splendid silk and =atin
Cravats and Scarfs ; black, white, and col’d kid Gloves,
best quality ; Berlin lined Gloves ; buck do, and Mittens;
Braces, various styles ; !"nder Vests and Drawers : woolen
Muafiles and Tippets; silk and linen Pocket Hdkfs, likewise
a host of articles not herein mentioned, all of which will
be offered at the lowest possible prices. dl5
BROADCLOTHS, CASSIMERES,
A.\‘D RICH VESTINGS—An extensive assortment of
the above named articles, embracing e 'ery desirable
shade and quality, which will be sold by the yard or made
up to order in a superior manner, at KIMBALL’S Custom
Room. Entransce No. 19 Westminster st. Rooms Nos. 3
and 5, up stairs. J. L. KIMBALL.
PANTS AND VESTS.
A N immense variety, comprising the newest styles made
and trimmed in the best styles. Call and examine
them at KIMBALL’S, 17 Westminster st.
~ POLKA BOOTS. -
NIISSES’ morocco and goat Polka Boots, of best quality,
AYA for sale low by EZRA BAKER, 55 3. Main st.
POLKA AND LACE BOOTS.
C MTILDREN’Sthick soled morocco Polkaand Lace Buots,
for sale by EZRA BAKER, 55 S. Main st.
*“A PENNY SAVEDIS A PENNY GAINED.”
A‘ GOOD workman always selects the best quality of
/% Tools. To such and others we would say, onr stock
conaists of Smith’s bench and monlding Planes, Groves’
hand and panel Saws, Smith & Snells Augers and Auger
Bitts, and other kinds of Tools, celebrated by an undisput
ed quality and superior finish. \We would also have the
public understand that we buy our goods for cash, mark
them at a living profit and adhere with few exceptions to
the one price systems.
dil2 GARDINER & PHILLIPS, §3 Broad st.
¢HONESTY, THE BEST POLICY.”
A PAIR of Stubb’s 7 inch Plyers was stolen from our
store, on the 7th inst. The thief, whether Knignt or
Day, is respectfully informed that our goods are invariably
counted when displayed before our customers, and that
the repetition of this or a similar offence will not only be
exposed, but handled over 1o the ‘tender mercies” of the
law, GARDINER & PHILLIPS.
COFFEE URNS.
A GOOD auomr;e:t-;:f i l?‘:;r-m; Coffee Urns, of superior
manufacture, rec’d this daé and for sale at 51 and 53
North Main st. THOMAS WHITAKER & SON.
HALL LANTERNS.
A LARGE assortment of rich stained and cut glass Hall
Lanterns, just rec’d and for sale at reduced prices at
51 and 53 North Main st.
d:2 TIHOMAS WHITAKER & SON.
DINING, TEA AND TOILET WARE.
l 4 CR\TES Edwards’ white iron stune Dining, Tea
and Toilet Ware, just rec’d and for sale at the low
,s; r;icu at 51 and 53 North Main st.
THOMAS WHITAKER & SON.
IVORY.
4 CASES ivory handled Knives and Forks, Knives with
out Forks, Carvers and Forks, Beef Slicers, Game Car
ver=, &c,just rec’d and for sale at the manufacturers’ prig
ces, at 51 and 53 North Main st.
dl2 THOMAS WHITAKER & SON.
~__ WHITE FROSTING,
FOR scenic effect, &c, for sale at the Great Mortar, 43
and 45 North Main st, by
a 2 H. H. BURRINGTON, Druggist.
et
50 0 bales extra Timol_h—y_,_ for sale by
dls WM. WHIPPLE BROWN.
FLOUR.
300 BBLS extra family Flour, from new wheat, a su
petior article, for sale by
dis WM. WHIPPLE EROWN, 1 W. Water st.
COQUIMBO GUANO.
50 TONS, for sale by
dals WM. WHIPPLE BROWN.
e OIR AR ey
5 TONS, steam pressed, for sale by
dls WM. WHIPPLE BROWN.
CHINESE ROUGE,
A NOVEL article, and much celebrated in China, for
imparting to the skin a most lively and natural color,
for sale at the Great Mortar, 43 and 45 North Main st, by
di2 H. H. BURRINGTON, Druggist.
GERMAN COLOGNE.
FRANCOIS Mario Farina, rue de la Cloche No. 4711, a
Cologne. This article is the most celebrated perfume
in the world. The genuine may be had by the box or bot
tle, at the Great Mortar. 43 and 45 North Main st, by
dl2 H H. BIJRRINGTON, Druggist.
CAUTION. 4
WHERE.\S, the known celebrity resulting from the ef
ficacious cures which Morse’s *““ComproUsp SYrur oF
YeLLow Dock RooT,” has produced in cases of ScroFuULA,
SaLt Rueuw, Kixg’s Evin, Urcers, ErvsireLas, Jaux-
DICE, Liver CoMpLaiNT, Dysrersy, SPRING CoMPLAINTS,
Ge~xgrar Desinity, and a variety of other pisgasks, has
induced many to imitate this valuable article, and deceive
the public by vending that which is spuriousand calculated
to give a false impression in regard to its just merits, this,
theref_re, is to caution those who wish to make vse of the
genuine article against purchasing a 'y exceptsuch as is put
up in oval quart bottles, with tho signature of the inventor
and sole proprietor, CHARLES MORSE, Jr,uponthe wrap
per; all uther kinds and shapes are spurious, let them em
inate from where they may.
Those att-mpting to pawn upon the public an imitation
of the article may expect that prosecution will beinstituted
for an infringement of the cory ricnt which has been se
cured forit. %
The name of the genuine original article is **Comrounp
Syrue oF Yerrow Docx Root.”” Itis purely vegetabie
and prepared only by CHARLES MORSE, Jr, theinventut
and sole proprietor, at 102 Fountain street. (formerly at 167
Broad street,) and to him alone is the compasition Knowi
[t is so!d i Providence by
J. Balch & Son, E. P. Mason,
A. F. Adie, C. A. W, Saow,
C. Dyer, Jr, 11. H. Burrington,
H. Rowe & Co, W, R. Arnold,
Dr. O. Suainar, B. D. Bailey,
E. T. Clarke, T. W. Eddy,
Job L. Pratt, Feuner & Harrington,
C. C. Najac, Thos. Dingley.
James Kelley, Olneyville
Albert C. Jencks, Pawiucket
Dr. H. Stockoridge, Woousocket
James Helmeg do
Daniel Sayles, do
Reuel P. Smith, do
Joha Cady, B ack:toue
M. B. Greene, Worcester
James Greene & Co, do
D. Scott, Jr & Co, do
C. C. G. Hazard, Newport
Aldert C. Congdon, East Greeuwlch
Daniel Carter, do
J. M. Anthony, Fall River |
N. A. & A. R. Spragu>, Nantucket
Jobn A. Wood, Swanzey
James Gardiner, Warren
Briggs & Drury, Bristol |
John B. Munroe, do |
A. & W. Sprague, Natick
H. W. Emmons, Hope Village
D. G Stone, Phenix
Jesse L. Moss, Westerly
F. A. Parmer, Stonington |
Dr. Newton Southworth, Mattapoiset |
Rev. Samuel Wild, Long Plain |
S O. Dunbar, Tanaton ‘
A. J. Barker, do |
Joseph Marshall, Dorchester
Edward Arnold, Marblehead
C. H. Pinkham,j Salem |
Angustus N. Clarke, Beverly |
Mrs. Bacon, Lynn |
Eben Jackson, Jr & Co, DBoston
Carlton & Hovey, Lasw:lil |
Hunter & Thorntoa, New Bedford |
E. Thornton, Jr, do |
Albert Gifford, do |
Dryden Smith, Dover {
W, H. Babbitt, New York city |
Jas. Wair, do ‘
A. B. Robbins, do
H. H. Jones. do |
A. H. Gough & Co, do
W. Stephens, do
W. H. Hall. do
W. W. Thayer, do
J. Evrard, do
R. C Roberts, do |
Weeks & Aaderson, ® do
Thomas & Maxwell, do
G. Benjamin, Beifast, New York
L. D. Coburn, Cazenovia, do
M. Evans, East Brooklyn, do
E. C. Lyon, Pitcher, do
H. M. Babcock, Westfield, do
Juo H. Halliday, Port Gibson, do
Fellows & Co, Ratavia, do
Gonlding & lLeet, Potsdam, do
Jackson & Fan, Buitilo, do
W. Willians, do do
J. Gallup, Palmyra, do
H. D. Wade, Rochester, do
= opkins & Dix, Glenw’s Palls, do
D. A. Moore, Syvracuse, do
Foster & Dickinson, Utica, do
Dr. A. Truax, Schienectady, do
Geo. Dexter, Athany, do
Rossman & McKiastry, Huadson, do
Mrs. ilays, Brooklyn, do
G. W. I'ay & Co, Owego, Tioga Co,N Y
Hampton & Herndon, Abendeen, Miss
Buel, Sheldon & Co, West Stockbridge, Mass
Dr. J. Shed, Danvers, do
J. Emerson, Sale, do
W. Endicott, Boverly, do
F. T. Whitney, Great darrington, do
H. Bennett, Daubury, Cona
S. C. Gorham, New Haven, Conn
J. C. De Lacone, Camden, N J
Jno. Pearson, Rahway, do
J. H. Flood, Paterson, do
J. H. Andrews, Almout, Mich
E. A. Graves, Niles, do
F. W. De Berard, Racina, Wisconsin
do Shebaygan, do
do Southport, do
A. W, Hateh, Milwaukie, do
D. D. Fiske, Portsmouth, Va
Tisdale & Hardenburgh, Richmond, Va
Ruste & Paddock, New Orleans
Henderson Panderson& Co,Uleveland, Ohio
Beunett & Morgan, Navannah, Geo
J. B. Marchise, Utica, N Y
A. T. Woodward, St Louis, Mo
O. A. Amtes, Morristown, Pa
O. D. Jenkins, Pottsville, Pa §
Blanch & Carp, tiarrisburg; Pa
E. H. Stable & Co, Baltimore, Md
J. P. Wilour, Persia PO,NY
Cook, Baker & Co, San Franeisco, California
C. C. Ricimond & Co, do do
And by a larze number of others. m2B
HOUSE FURNISHING DRY GOODS.
LA RGE AS~ORTMENT O HOUSE FURNISHING
DRY GOODS—G. F. GLADDING & CO. have rec’d
almost every variety of lincn, cotton and woolen house
keeping goods, ¢ snsisting of white and brown Linen Dam
ask Table Cloths, of all sizes and qualities; Linen Damask
Napkins and Doylies; extra Iwrge Damask Napkins; fine
Huckerbuck do, with damask burders ; do do, with striped
borders ; Huckerbuck Towelling, varions gnalities: Russia
Crash ; fize soft Dowlas fr glasscloths ; Russiaand Scotch
Damasks, f various wilths, by the yard ; Barnsley Linen
Sheetings and Pillow Linens, varions widths and qualities ;
brown and black and white Linen Floor Cloths; colored
plaid Table Covering by the yard ; worsted and cotton col
ored Table Covers, all sizes; coulored embossed Table,
Stand and Piano Covers, in new and beautiful patterns
worsted Damasks and Moreens ; English and American
Furniture Chintzes ; Curtamn do; white Curtain Muslins;
German Oil Cloths, in very rich patterns; American white
and English white and colored Qnilis; Criband Cradledo;
Bed Comforters; white and colored Toilet Covers ; Toilet
Sets ; also, a large assortment «f browu and bleached Sheet
ings and Shirtings, § to 2§ yards wide; Furniture Plaids;
Tickings of the most approv.d marutacture, &c, &c, all of
which they offer at the lowe t pussible prices at 35 North
Main st. ml 7
ACCOUNT BOUKS, PAPER, %
A ND STATIONARY—The subscr:ber invites attention
to his extensive and well selected stock of Account
Books, Paper, Stationery, &c.
Account Books, ruled to all the patterns in general use ;
also manufactured to order to any pattern and style re
quired, and warranted to give satisfaction.
Writing Papers, of every description, including blue,
white laid and wove Letter and Cap Papers, of English
and American manufa~ture ; Playing Cards.
Note Paper and Envelopes, plain and fancy.
:Inlks—English and American writing, copying, blue and
red Inks. }
Sealing Wax and Wafers—Jones’, Victoria, Harp and
Dutch Crown Sealing Wax ; Royal, Scarlet and Red Wa
fers, assorted sizes.
Steel Pens, of Gillott’s, Windle’s, Herta’s, Perry’s and
Leman’s manufacture.
Gold Pens, from the different manufacturers.
Quills—A full assortment, of all sizes.
Whatman's Drawing Papers— A full assortment.
Slates—Hard wood frame School and Log Slates ; proce
lain Slates and Tablets.
Cutlery—Pen and Pocket Knives, Erasers, &e¢.
GEO. H. WHI'V'NEY,
f 7 successorto C. Burnett, Jr, 3 Westminster st
WESTMINSTER LIBRARY.
‘VE have established a circulating Library, with the
above name, in connexion with our booxkstore, at 140
Westminster st, and shall be happy to receive the calls of
the reading community in town and country. We have
nearly one thousand volumes to offer at the start, compris.
ing the most valuable in every department of Literature,
Biography, History, Voyages and Travels, Domestic Econ
omy, l!:»elry. all the best noveis and the latest works on
she ancient and modern sciences. Additions will be made
from day to day of new works, as soon as they are issued
from the press. Rich, rare and racy Antiquarian Works
will be added occasionally. We shall endeavor to accom
modate the wants of the public aud we solicit a share of
public paticnage. L. W, WINSOR.
BOOK NOTICE.
BOOKS. Pamphlets, Pictures, Globes, Maps, &c, ofevery
description, will be bought and paid for in cash at 140
Westminster st. Boxes of old Pamphlets, &c, stowed
away in your attics, will generally pay for removal and
benefit community by being put in circulation. We know
what books are, and will pay according to their real mer
chantable value. Gentlemen having valuable Books or
qaantities of old Pamphlets for sale, which itis notconven
ient to remove, will be waited upon at their residences it
desired. L. W. WINSOR.
BOOKS.
PUBLIC and private I-i'b‘;:;r’i;.:'.;ﬁpplied with any Books
published in this country at very low prices for cash by
ml 7 L. W. WINSOR, 110 Wes*minster st.
LOOKING GLASSES.
100 DOZ common Looking Glasses, just rec’d and for
sale unusually low at 51 and 53 North Main st.
f 7 THOMAS \Vlllfl_':\l{Ell& SON.
EARTHEN WARE.
5 0 CRATES common Earthen Ware, suitable for coun
. try stores, just rec’d and for <ale verv.low at 51 and
53 North Main st THOMAS WHITAKER & SON.
~_______ STAIR ARPETINGS.
BRUSSELS and Venitian Stair Carpetings, just rec’d at
Carpet Hallby ROB'T STEFRE & BROTHER.
" S "o Rve ey | e,
.{@i A lll"‘\ ’t’: n“pM § P 320
US! BOOTSxE . SHOES WA
PR ALLAIECUOCURA KR KU UOlO CILTAS A TEHASL- e
;léji‘v' AR, ee o< A N
e SRR
]S[ 8 P
11 AP i SEREIO &Y\ IR L
j RASR- D | B eoSßoy k"
; ‘ j ¥, o SNO
i b R L ¥ 5 i 5
= [ 7| St Loy mEe S W
3;‘ S % _,\“' 2A% PHNTS O ;“ 'I\l:l
SR ¥ )RS EeBVRS
R L P Rt
CE S ’“ > ’j’n
AP R T 1 Al Ty
. > K NN g
»fa -3 ;_'j;_‘_'x' ) 'r!-'il..k.. ‘,t‘: ‘; - I
e, L. WS ——.
?———;‘__\,ll “~.“-,' = b __-:’
T,7 e o e e [ -
"‘6‘.” e
OFF SC. . T —rem——
THIS is the place where ca<h will buy Beots and Shoes
10 per centum cheager than any otherstoreinthecity
Low rent, large sales and small profits is the th ng.
wd ALLEN J. BROWN, 111 Broad =t.
RHODEISLANDAGRICULTURAL WARE
ROOM AND SEED STORE,
N 0.36 Broap st, PROVIDENCE.
FIELD, GRASS, GARDEN AND FLOWER SEEDS,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
OUR Seeds can be relied on as genunine and fresh,asthe
greatest care has been 'aken in sel ction,and the
greater part are raised expressly for us by the most experi.
enced seed growers in the country.
Hay Cutters, Corn Shellers, Ploughs of every description,
including the ce ebrated Mart:n Plongh, which is now cone
sidered by the most competent judges the best in use.
We keep constantly on hand a full and complete assort
ment of Agricaltural Implements, wany of which are new
and of the latest improvement.
CROWELL’S PATENT THERMOMETER CHURN.
We would invite the attention of farmers and others to
this Churn, as being superior to anything heretofore used,
m 3 WM. M SNOW & CO.
WILDER'S PATENT SALAMANDER IRON
NAES,
MANUFACTURFED BY
SILAR C HERRING, New York
A TRIAL was made before a Connnittee of emment Mer
chants at the foot of Wall street, New-York, for the
pose of testing the fire-proct qualitics of Wilder’s Patent
m.mandert Safe, as comprred with those claimed for
Jesse Delano’s, C. J. Gayler’s Patent Double, and Scott’s
Patent Ashestos Safe. ‘The übjoined extract from the
Commiittee’s Report, with the uames of the gentiemen who
rendered that decisive verdict attached, presents clearly and
conciseiy the result of the experiment.
TRACT.
The above was a fair trial, and was tons a convincing
proof of the superiority of the Sulamander Safe over all oth
ers; and considering that it was exposed to an intense heat
tor a period of eight hours, while each of the others were
destroyed by the same Leat in less than two hours, We
have no hesitation in saying, that we consider Wilder's
Salamander Safe really fire-proof, and afford.nz perfect se
curity to books and papers in case of hire. We therefore
take much pleasure in making this statement to the public,
and in recommending to tiem W.lder’s Patent Salamander
Sate, as fully entitled to their confidence.
WADSWORTH & SMITIH, )
LDWIN & €O, L .
?lI.IV'I‘)I'II.\' & CO. yCommi:tee.
CHARLES il. MARSIIALL, |
Subsequent accidental trials have been equally satisf c¢-
tcry as can be shown by numerous certificates and testi
monials, and aiso by the Safe, which was tested in tle
burning of ihe building occupied by Messrs, Stone & Wen
ver, in this city, last December, and which can be seen at
the store of BROWN, BARKER & CO.; No. 53 Market
Street ; and hiaveanassortinent of the Genuine Salamande)
Safes, for sale at manufacturer’s prices. 17
CAUTION.
AS my Spanish Lustral and Medicated Hair Preservative
has acquired a high reputation, and is almost universal-
Iy used for promoting the growth and preserving and beauti
fying thie hair, another article has been brought before the
public under the same name, but entirely different in its
composition and effect, and [ hereby caution the prblic net
to be taken in by it, but always to mgaire for “Camm ¢
Spaaish Lustral” and use no other, if they wish to be se
cure {romw deception. The ingrcd ents; and a portion of
them can only be übtained from the Sparish markets, and
the manner of compounding the Lustral are knewn ouly tc
myself, the sceret having been communicated to me 1%
years since by a distingu'shed surgeon in Ed nburgh, Sco-.
tand, and was by me introduced to the public for the fir t
time. My Spanish Lustral may be Kknown by its bright gold
en color, being free from all ccloring matter which is al
ways injuricus to the hair, and I would caution the public
not to use any article of red color for the ha'r, as it must
tend to injure it very mateiially, and above all to purchase
no article bearing the name of Spanish Lustral unless my
name is attached to it, as all others are vile imitations, cal
culated to deccive those who are unacquainted with the
genuine and highly approved Camm’s Spanish Lustral.—
For sale by the pmpricl:_,_r,___ e e S S
o = © T W.CAMM, 38 Senth Main st.
And also by CHARLES DYER, Jr., 49 snd 42 Westmine
ster st., sole agent for the Spanish Lustral. aui2—itf
LELAND'S MUSIC STORE.
Musical instruments and Musical Mer
chandise, can be obtained at this estab
-9 lishiment, ot every desciiption, and of
the very best qua'ity, consisting «f supe
rior Guitars, plain and ornamental, at prices from &3 to
$25; F.utes of every descripion, from £l to £35; Clari
nets, Flagelets and Fifes, of varions kinds of wood and
tinish ; Violins at every price from 81 50 to $35; Draes in
strumeits ef every Kind ; Uaajos; Tamborines; Tuning
Forks; Pipes ; Hammers ; Reeds ; Bridges ; Strings ; Rosin ;
Pegs ; Bow Hair; Violin Bows, aad Violin Trimuwangs ot
allkinds ; also, Seraphines; Melodeons ; Accordeons ; Mu«
sic Boxes; Music Racks, and Fuolios, &c.
Glee and Music Insiruction Books for every instrument
THE SHEET MUSEC—Consists of an extensive stoch
of uld and new music. The publications of every store in
the country can bo obtained at this store. Purchasers will
find ail the newest a «d most favor.ite Songs aud Pieces
continually for sale. Piano Fortestolet, at prices from §§
to 812 peranart r; also, second hand Pianos for sule.
- PIANO FORTEStuned and warranted to give satisfac
tion.
REPAIRING of every kind of Musical Instruments
with neatness and in the most expeditions manner.
The price of Music, Instrumienis and Merchandise as
sold at this estabbshment, o< low, if not cheaperthan New
York or Boston. Orders w:ll be attended towiththe great
estcare by A. M. LELAND, 135 Westminster st. mvlQ
PIANO FOLRTES.
. The subscriberwould call the attention of
;éj A - the public to his extensive assortment of
> Q c=s Piano l"ungs,y:st r~reufed from the man
utactory of Hullet, Davis & Co, Boston.
The above named makers have received the diplomas atthe
two last fairs at Worcester snd Boston. No better recom
mendation can be asked for than the above statement. Piaro
Feortes, with all the latest improvements, of various styles
of cases, made from mahogany orrosewood, at prices vary
ing from §sl9o to 8410, will be kept condinually for sale at
the manufacturers’ lowest prices. If yo 2 wish to purchase
a good Piano at a low price, call and examine hefore pur
chasing elsewhere. Every instrument sold will he war.
ranted to give perfect satisfaction, or the money refunded.
P. S. Old Pianos wanted in exchanze for new ; also
second hand Pianos fur sale oto fet. A. M. LELAND,
m2B Howard’s Block, 135 Westinster st.
NIW MUSIC! N<AW MUSIC!:
st .S. T. 'I‘IIdURBI-II:, 127 ;\'es(m{:ﬂ;r st,
e las justrec’d several new Songs, Waltzes,
Polkas, Marches, Quick Steps, among
? which are “Mully Bawn,” “Lament of
the Alpine Shepherd Boy.” Gipsey Boy, words by Eliza
Cook ; Christie’s celebrated Neg o Me'odies ; Gazelle Polka;
Saratoga Polka; Theodora Polka; New York Fusilier’s
Grand Galop, &e¢, &c, &e, &c. Fancy Goods and Toys of
the latest importation ; also,a larga lot of French and Swiss
fancy work, consisting of Work Baskets, embroidered and
plain with and without covers, of all sizesand prices. Call
and see,at THURBER'S uew store, Museum Building,
(127 Westuiinster st, 127). a 7
NEW MUSIC. FANCY GOODS, &c.
S T. THURBER, 127 Westminsterst, Muzeumbuilding,
« has just rec’d a chuice selection of the latestand most
fashiouable Music, consisting of Songs, Duetts, Polkas,
Waltzes, Marches, Quick Sieps, together with the latest
numbers of the celebrated Negro Melodies of the Christy
Minstrels. Fancy Goods, cousisting of French and Swiss
Willow Baskets ; Bridal, Mourning and Dress Fans, scme
very beautifully embellished with water colored drawings,
mirrors and tasselled ; ladies’ Dress Combs, of the latest
importation, manufactured expressly for the prevailing
sty le of French twist, consisting of shell, buffalo horn, &e,
ornamented in fresco, sprig, flowers,grape vine, &c; Toys
of all kinds and descriptions, at the lowest prices. alB
T RASKETS AND FANCY GOODS.
S T. THURBER, 127 Westmiuster st, Museum Build
e ing, calls the attention of the ladies to see Lis new
stock of French and Swiss Willow Baskets, justrec’d, of
bezutiful patterns and workmanship, embroidered, &c;
Card and Cake Baskets; Ladies’ Work Baskets, with and
without ecovers. Fancy Gnrods—New and beautiful style
of Fans, some very beautiful, with mirrors, tipped with
down and tasselled, &c ; aiso, just rec’d a splendid lot of
ladies Hair Combs. manufactured expressly for the new
‘style of French Twist, consisting of Shell and Buffalo
Hagrn, &e, ornamented irfresco-springand grape vine &
Fancy Goods and Toys of all cescriplions, at the lowest
prices al4
HOT AIR FURNACKS, &c.
HAVING purchased of Ingalls & Cushing all their Hot
Air Furnace Patterns and Castings, Registers, &e., |
am prepared to sell Furnaces or parts of the same, and to
make T'in, Iron and Copper Pipes, and fit them to order.
These Hot Air Furnaces are well known to our citizene, a
great number being in operation in this city and in the
various towns in this and the adjoining States, By their
simple construction, ease of management,and an efficiency
in their operation, they are giving more general satisfaction
than any other kind of Furnace. Oue of Walker’s (New
York) patent Hot Air Furnaces for sale, which come high
ly recommended. Stoves of various kinds, viz: Ship’s
Cambooses ; the Roston office and shop Stoves ; L. Wood’s
(New York) patent Fuel Saver; Salamander Stoves, vari
ous sizes and patterns ; air tizht wood Stoves ; Coal Hods,
Sifters and Shovels ; Russia, R. G. and commen Sheetlron
for sale as cheap as can be bought elsewhere.
m 3 JOHN A. HOWLAND, 67 8. Main st.
GAS FITTING.
TIIO VMAS WHITAK R & SON, havingcompleted their
arrangements with the Providence Gas Co. to under
take the business of Gas Fitting, are now prepared to fit up
houses, stores, factories, &c, in a superior manner, and at
fair prices. All work done under their direction warrant
ed. Ordersleft at 51 and 53 North Main st, or with Mr,
James E. Hudson, at onr workshop, 41 Canal st, or at the
office uf the Gas Company, will be promptly attended to.
Also. a full assortment of Gilt, Bronze, Silver and Dam
ask Gas Chandaliers, Brackets, Pendants, &e, of Cornelius
& Co’s manufacture, received and for sale at 51 and 53
North Main st. aul9
PACKING AND NEWS PRINTING PAPER
I\l ROBINSON, Howard’s Block, Museum Avenue,
« has on hand and keens constantly for sa'e on the
most favorable terms packing and raws printing Papers,
of sizes 22 by 32, ¥4 by 34, 25 by 32, 25 by 3G, and 25 hy 38
nches; also, colored printing Paper, various colors and
sizes ; wrapping and hardware Paper, various sorts and
sizes, post office and package envelope do; writing and
letter Papers,in greit variety ; fancy colored I’apen, &c.
For the Removal and Permanent Cure of all
NERVOUS DISEASES,
And of those Complaints which are cansed by an im
puired, weakened or unbealthy condition of the
NERYOUS SYSTEM.
This beautiful and convenient application of the ny s
terious powers of GALV ANISM and MAGNETISA, has
been pronounced by distingunished physicians, both n
Europe and the United Stutes, to be thie mos raluoble
medicinal discorvery of the Aze.
Dr. CHRISTIE'S GALVANIC BELT
and
MAGNETIC FLUID,
18 used with the most peifect and ceitain success iu all
" cases of
GENERAL DEBILITY,
Strengthening the weakened body, giving tone to the
various organs, aud invigorating the eutie syste:n Ale
in FITS, CRAMP, PARALYSIS and PALSY, D)SPEP-
SIA or INDIGESTION, RHEUMATIS
CHRONIC, GOUT, EPILEPSY, LUMBAGO, DEAF.
NESS, NERVOUS TREMORS, PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, APOPLEXY, NEURALGIA, PAINS in
the SIDE and CHEST, LIVER COMPLAINT, SPINAL
COMPLAINT, and CURVATURE of the SPINE, HIP
COMPLAINT, DISKASES of the KIDNEYS, DEFI
CIENCY OF NERVOUS and PHYSICAL ENERGY,
and all NERVOUS DISEASES, which complaints arise
from one simple cause —namely,
A Derangement of the Nervous System.
0~ In NERVOUS COMPLAINTS, Drugs and Medi
cines increase the disease, {or they wesken the vital ener.
gies of the already prostrated system ; while under the
strengthening, life-giving, vitalirin‘f influence of Galvan.
ism, as applied by this beautiful and wonderful discovery,
the exhausted patient and weakened sutferer is restored
to former health, strength, elasticity and vigor
The grest peculiarity and excelience of
Dr. Christie's Galvanic Curatives,
consists, in the fuct that they arrest and cure disease by
outward application, in place of the usual mode of drug
ging and physicking the patient, till exhausted Nature
sinks hopelmly under the infliction.
They strengthen the whole system, equalize the circvlotion
of the Ilud. promote the secvetions, and necer do the slizhi.
est injury wnder any civcumstances. Since their iutro.
‘t’l‘:cm in the UniteJ'Slate-, only three years since, more
an
60,000 Persons
including all ages, classes and conditions. among which
were & large number of ladies, who are peculiarly sulject
to Nervous Complaints, have been
ENTIRELY AND PERMANENTLY CURED,
when all hope of relief had been given up, and every
thing else been tried in van!
To illustiate the use of the GALVANIC BELT,
lupsnse the case of a person afilicted with that Lane of
civilization, DVYSPEPSIA, or any other Chrome or
Nervous Disorder. In ordinary cases, stimunlants are
taken, which, by their action on the nerves and muscles
of the stomach, afford temporary rvelief, but which leave
the patient in a lower state, and with mjured facullies,
after the action thus excited has ceased Now compare
this with the effect resulting fiom the application ot the
GALVANIC BELT. Take a DLyspeptic suflerer, even
in the worse symjptoms of an :lllm‘i. and sumply tie the
Belt around the body, using the Maguetic Fluid as
directed. In a short period the insensible perspirvation
will act on the positive clement of the Belt, thereby
causing a Galvanic circulation which will pass ou to the
negative, and thence buck agamn to the positive. thus
Keeping up a coutinuous Galvanic circulation throughosut
the system. Thus the most severe cases of DY STHPSIA
are PERMANENTLY CURED A KFEW DAYS IS
OFTEN AMPLY SUFFICIENT TO ERADICATE THE
DISEASE OF YEARS.
CERTIFICATES AND TESTIMONIALS
Of the most Undoubted Character,
From all parts of the Country could be given, sufficient
to till every column in this paper!
AN EXTRAORDINARY CASE,
which conclusively proves that
“Truth is stranger than Fiction.”
CURE P
RHEUMATISM, BRONCHITIS AND DYSPEPSIA.
Rev. Dr. Landis, a Clergyman
of .\'te‘x:'l Jersey, of distinguished attainmeuts and exalted
reputation :
Sipxey, New Jersey, July 12, 1848,
Dk. A. H. Cuxistie—Dear Sir: You wish to know of
me what has been the result in my own case, of the appl
cation of THE. GALVANIC BELT AND NECKLACE.
My veply is as follows :
For about twenty years I had been saffering from Dys
pepsia. Every year the symptoms became worse, nor
could [ obtain permanent reliet from any course of medi
cal treatment whatever. About fourfeen years since, in
consequence ol {requent exposure to the weather, in the
discharge of my L\astoral duties, ] became subject to a
severe Chronic Rheumatism, which for year aiter year,
caused me indescribable anguish. Farther: in the winter
of 45 and 46, in consequence of preaclung a great deal
in my own and various other churches in this region, I
was attacked by the Bronchitis, which soon became so
severe as to requiie an immediate suspension of my pas
toral labors. My nervous system was now thoroughly pros
trated, and as my Bronchitis became worse, so also Ils my
Dyspepsia and Rheumatic attection—thus evincing that
these «I?mrders were connected with each other through
the medium of the Nervous System. In the whole phar
macopeia there seemed to be no remedial agent which
could reach and recuperate my Nervous System ; every
t.hin?i that | had tried for this purpose had completely
failed. At last ] was led by my friends to examiue your
inventions, and (though with no very senguine hopes of
their efficiency,) | determined to try the effect of the
application of the GALVANIC BELT AND NECKLACE,
with the MAGNETIC FLUID. This was in June, 1846.
T'o MY GREAT ASTONISHMENT, IN TWO Davs my Dysrersia
HAD GONE; IN EIGHT DAVS | WAS ENABLED TO RESUME
MY PASTORAL LABORS ; NOK HAVE | SINCE OMITTED A SINGLE
SERVICE ON ACCOUNT OF THE BrRoNCHITIS ; AND My Ruwv-
MATIC AFFECTION HAS ENYIRELY CEASED TO TROUBLE ME.
Such is the wonderful and happy results of the experiment.
I have recommended the BELT and FLUID to many
who have been likewise suffering from Neuralgic affec
tions. They have tried them, wiTH HAPPY RESULTS, 1
BELIEVFE, IN EVERY CASK.
I am, deasr sir, very mpeclfull{ yours,
ROBERT W. LANDIS.
DR. CHRISTIE’S
GALVANIC NECKLACE
Is used for all complaints uﬂ'ectinf the Throat or Head,
such as Bronchitis, inflammation of the Throat, Nervous
and Sick Headache, Dizziness of the Head, Neuralgia in
the Face, Buzzing or Roaring in the Ears, Deafness, which
is generally Nervous, aud that distressed complaint. called
Tic Doloreux.
Palsy and Paralysis.
All physicians acknowledge that these ternble diseases
are caused by a deficiency of Nervous Emercy in the
affected limbs. Dw. Cumistie’s Galvanic Articles will
supply this deficient power, and a complete and entire
cuie is thus effected.
1000 Cases of Palsy and Paralysis
have been reported to Dr. Caristix and his Agents within
the last two years, which have been entirely restored.
('.?— Car. AxprEw J. K. Tomes of Brooklyn, N. Y., had
not been able to walk a step for near four years, and was
s 0 helpless that he had to be fed. The most celebrated
physicians gave hiwm up. In five days after he commenced
wearing the Garvasic Beur, N¥ECKLACE, aAxD BracriETs,
he walked across the room, and in three weeks he had per
fectly recovered his health. Captain Tomes is seventy
years of age.
DR. CHRISTIE’S
GALVANIC BRACELETS
Are found of vast service in cases of Convulsions or Fits,
Spasmodic Complaints, and genersl Nervous Aflections of
the Head and upper extremities Also in Palsy and Paraly.
sis, and all diseases caused lr{’.u deficiency of power
:;dNenous Energy in the limbs or other organs of the
¥
FITS AND CONVULSIONS.
These alarming and terrible complaints are always
caused by 8 derangement of the Nerves ‘The Byir,
BrackrLeTs axp Fruip will cure nearly every case, no
matter how young or old the patient, or how confirmed
the comphin{ Numerous and astonishing proofs are in
possession of the prietor.
0@ Man nnﬂ'&a Certificates from all peits of the
country o&' tlae most extraordinery character can be given,
if required.
oa(ll- No trouble or inconvenience attends the use of
DK. CHRISTIE'S GALVANIC ARTICLES, snd
they may be worn b{ the most feeble and delicate with
perfect ease and salety. In many cases the sensation
attending their use is highly pleasant and egreeable. They
can be sent to any part of !‘e country.
Prices:
The Galvanic Belt, Three Dollars,
The Galvanic Necklace, Two Dollars,
The Galvanic Bracelets, One Dollar Each.
The Magnetic Fluid, One Doliar.
o@~ The articles are ac':conrnied by full and plain
directions. l’ll\thletl with ful p.m'cnlun may be had
of the authorized Agent.
PARTICULAR CAUTION.
o@~ Beware of Counterfeils and Worthless Imitetions
7 For sale in PROVIDENCE, R. I, by the only au
thorized Agent, ¥I. H. BURRINGTON, Druggist,
Nos. 43 and 45 North Main Street, and 125 Hi_h Street.
1% BEWARE OF SPURIOUS IMITATIONS. &7
MEDICINES,
CAHPHOR; Opium ; Cream Tartar; Soda : Sulfhur;
Salts ; Caiomel ; Aloes ; Myrrh : Munna : Ipicac ; Jalap ;
Liquorice ; Magnesia : Picra; Quicksilver ; Rhubarb ; Sen
na ; Saltpetre ; Spts. Nitre; Aqua Amonnia; Balsam Co-
Fiva ; Canada Snake Root ; En!. Valerian ; Laudanum ;
aragoric ; Essences, &c., &c., for sale at very low prices
by OLIVER JOHNSON, 13 Exchange st.
ACLTE and