Poctry.
From the Hartford Republican.
FORWARD!
Forward ! the day is breaXing ;
Earsh shall be dark no more ;
Miilions of mn are waking
On every sea and shore ;
With trumpets and with banners,
The wo 'd is marching on ;
The air rings with hossannas ;
The field 1s fought and won.
Fosward ! on crown and mitre
We trample as we go,
While bright and ever brighter,
T'he fires of morning glow ;
Our broken foes are flying,
Blasted by light from heaven ;
Or in tre batile dying,
Unwept and unforgiven.
Forward ! though storm and thunder
May roar to beat us back ;
Though the earth cleave a<under
Across our constant track ;
No shapes of terrur frighten
He irts that are true and trong,
But the flames their pathway brighten,
And the thundars roll in song.
Forward | the woild before us
Listens to hear our tread ;
And the calm, ju e heavens o’er us,
Smile blessings ou our heads;
Hope, like as eagle, hovers
Above Lthe wav we go ;
And the shield of Patience covers
Qur harts from every foe.
Forward ! lst none now falter,
The glorious end is near,
When temple, throne, and altar
Shall rall and disappear :
Truth, born of heaven shall guide :s
To hus own happy land ; .3
And evermore beside us,
Freedon and Love shall stand.
Forward ! as near and nearer
We draw into our rest,
The light of joy shines clearer
In ever; faithful breast ;
The Past hath cea:ed to bind us,
t esains are hurled away,
And the deep gloom behind us
Meits in the dawning day.
From tie Pennsylvanian.
THE BEGGAR.
BY JULIAN,
A winter’s wind blew cold nnd drear,
The air was filled with sleet—
As p teous accents struck mine ear,
[0 tones as saa as swret,
The hyur was late, the cold intense,
Withering the power of every sense.
1 stopped and turning, saw a sight
That caused my blood to curd,
A frail form, pale from cold and fright,
Poured forth the tones [ heard .
“Pity, kind sir,” she faintly cries,
“While tears rull from her o’ercharged eyes.'
“Her parents once were rich, and she,
T'he gayest of tha gay ;
Riches gave place to poverty,
Without one cheering ray.”
*i'was thus her monrnful tale she told,
Her light forma quivering with cold.
Sieh ehanges oft tlke place on earth,
Of which we little think,
Rut some there are, who, from their birth,
‘The bitter cup st drink.
Wi, from the cradle to the tembd,
Do fade away, ere others bloom.
Ye who have been with comfurts blest,
Whose path of life is sweet,
Who hath no cares to rack your breast,
~ Whom troubles seldom meet.
Think of my tale when next you see
A being cursed with poverty.
Stlisceliancons.
From the Dollar Statesman.
THE ESCAPE:
OR, Tl PRIVATEER axp tue FRIGATE.
A LEGEND OF THE WAR OF 1312,
“ An! but little do they know,
“Wh ) never to sea do go,
* Of the danzers of the deep.”—Old Song.
Tag breaking out of the war of 1812 fonrd
me oun the lsiand of St. Christopher, or as
more familiwly ealled, St Kitts, il with a fe
ver. the effects of which kept me confined to
my room {or many months. Upon my recev
ery, the difiiculty of gewung away from the
multitude of Engiish cruisers enduced me to
enter into husiness there, which detained me
until the war had ceased. While residing
there, the scene narrated below, occurred,
which if you deem worthy a place in vour
paper, is at your scrvice. [t has a litde to
gecommend i, but the truth. At the time of
its occurrence 1t made a deep impression on
my m ud, and. even now it is before me, fresh
in all its paeticulars as the day it happened,
but the pen of man would fail todo it jlll'.lCO.
The Island, yon will recollect, isone of the
Smup to which the general name of West lo
ies is attached, and is owned and geverned
by the French. The principal harbor defend -
ed by a strong battery,isin the form of a huge
bowl, with two outlets to the ocean, the one
bread and deep, the otlier nmrow, iotricats
and shailow.
It was during the time that a koHew ¢truce
was patched up betweer France and England,
that an American privateer appeared off the
harbor, which played the verv deuce with the
Eoglish Merchantmen which frequented St.
Kitts. She was a long, narrow Baltimore
built clipper, and one of the fastest sailers |
ever saw. She seemed when in pursuit, to
fly before the wind. and for the luckless Mer
elantmen in sight, there secemed no safety, ex
cept running iate the harbor, or gettiag won
der the guns of an occasional British man of
war. So great an aunoyance did this little
Privateer prove, that on complaint being made
to the Eanzlish Admirality, a fine Frigate, and
oune of the fastest sailers was despatched to
St. Kius, to cruize off the harbor, witk orders
at all hazards to capture the Privateer.
A wcek or two belore the time of which [
speak, the inhihitants of the town were awak
ened by the sound eof cannon at ses, and as
day broke, the pivateer with every sail set,
was dashing in towards the harbor, in chase of
a fine, large merchant vessel. Just as the lat
ter entered the chapne!l, leading into the har
bor, the Privateer was by her side, and the
cry of the Captain *Boarders—away," seot a
crowd of gallant spirits into the English ves
sel, an | alier a shor, but fierce and desperate
struggle, the vessel was a prize, snd immedi
stely left the harbor in company with her
captor.
The vessel was taken within the harhor—
within a port owned by a neutral pewer. which
should have afforded protection, and the Brit
ish Consul made formal complaint to the Gov
erpor, of this breach of the law of natiops.—
The Governor excused himseif as best he
could. Thescene of the struggle was bevond
the reach of the guns of the fort, and besides
there was no French vessels of war in the
barbor at tlie time, to prevent the capture.—
With thie explanation the Cousul was forced
to he satisfied.
The British Frigate in the meaatime arrived,
sud for several days nought was seen of the
saucy linde Privateer, though every vessel
that came into portspoke of being overhau'ed
by her, to see il the French flag which they
bore, did net cover an Eoglish vessel. Re
ports, too, reached us of rich prizes taken, and
the Americans at St. Kitts taunted Ihe Eng-
Lish citizens with the aboriive efforts to cap
ture whit we called the ‘Flying American,’
in imitation of the famed ‘Flying Dutchman,
whose powers of übiquity the Privateer seem
ed to poseess.
One morning, a bright clondless Sunday
morming in May, which had troughet the en
tire population of the city to the hill side over
looking the towa and harber,—another distant
firing was heard at sea, and those who had
glisses saw two vessels, with crowded canvass,
making towards the mouth of the harbor.—
The hindmost would occasionally yaw round
for the purpose of ponring in a broadside,
while the other wiih her stera guns, kept up
an occasional cannonade on the pursuing ves
s-l. Nearer thev approached, and soon were
perceptible to the naked eye, and the words
passed from man to man, ‘it is the Enelish
Frigate and the American Privateer.’ They
eutereda the harbor, the Privateer near a mile
in advance of the Frigate. and both anchored
side by side uoder the guans of the Fort.
The Frigae finding every effort to take the
Privateer aboertive, had, while in port, so dis
guised her appearance, as to pass for a large
merchantman. The morning of which I speal §
» sail was seen, and soon tLe Privateer wa,
'making headway towards her. To carry on
‘thedeception the Frigate attempted 1o escape,
but a sail which had been drawn under her so
impeded her progress, that the Privateer made
iw)rkuotstothe Frigate's one, and off St. K tts
slie overhauled her, and found she was about
catching atartar, just io time to prevent board
ing. Finding the Privateer making off : the
Captaiu of the Frigate opened a fire on the
iittle vessel. now crowding sail for St. Kitts.
Fortunately her rigging remained uvninjured,
znd, the vessels, #s | belore said, came nto
the harbor, the Frigate closely pursuing the
Privateer, and both anchored uander the walls
of the Fort.
Io a few inoments a boat was seen leaving
the shore with the British Consul on board.
The boat soon returned with bath the Caprain
of the Frigate and the Cousul, and the two
proceeded to the residence of the Governor,
wherethey remained for an hour. When they
lefi the Governor's house both seemed delight
ed, and on arriving at the waters edze the
British Captain remarked that he would send
the Privateer to England next day with des
patches.
Sooo the news was hinted about that the
Governor had ordered the Privateer to leave
the port within 12 hours, or its neatrality
should be no protection, and this decision was
based on its violation by the Captain of the
Privateer in iuvading its neutrality, by captur
ing 3 Merchantman within the harbor some
weeks previous. The excitemeat amoang the
American residents upon the reception of the
news was intense, and even the KFrench citi
zens, whose (eelings were ever against the
English, whom they regard as their natural
enemy, and in favor of the Americans, whom
they regard as natural allies against England,
the feeling of indignation was freely expressed
while the English residents were leud in their
exultation.
~All eyes were turned to the dooraed vessel.
‘Her captain had been duly notified of the de
termionativn of the Governor, but no move
ment wasseen by whicli her course of conduct
could be foreshidowed. At length the order
was given to weigh anchor, aad at the same
moment the same order was given on board
the Frigate. and both vessels side by side,
steered for the mouth of the harbor, the Pri
vateer with bat sufficient caavass to carry her
out, the Frigate wich sails so set as to move
oeither faster nor slower than did her antici
pated prize.
The Americanse on shore were loud in their
inJiznation. 1€ the Privateer was tobe raken,
they preferred thar she should be hoarded and
captured under the guns of the Fort, that the
question of the right ef the Governor to re
fuse protection might be made a national af
fair.
Slowly the vessels sailed towardsthe mouth
of the harbar. In the commencement of this
description, 1 said the harbor had iwo cutlets,
the one broad aud deep. the othershallow, nar
row and dangerous. The litter was used by
Fishermen in going to sea, for it cut off near
a mife in getting to the ocean, the other was
used as an outlet, and the only one, for vessels
of war and Merchantmen.
As the two vessels were nearing the lesser
outlet, the Privateer was atonce, as if by mag
ic, cavered with sail—every stich of canvass
that she could bear, being placed upon her.
At once she dashed into the narrow outlet,
and a cry of horror rose from the old Fisher
men on shore, for none supposed she could
pass through it, but must founder onthe rocks
with which it abounded. With the speed of
an arrow shot from a cross bow, the gallant
vessel sped on, as obedient 1o the Pilot as
though possessed of human reason. The
Frigate, tea, ccewded sail for the deeper chan
nel. On shore the excitement was intense—
scarce a sound was heard, so deep and absorbh
ing was the race, that men scemed almost
afraid to breathe. On sweptihe glorious Pri
vateer, and oa went the frigate, each strained
to the utmost, like two gallant horses contend
ing for the prize. The one wias flying from
captivitv—the other for the honor and for the
emolument of the capiure. T'he Privaieer
had gained two thirds of the distance, but the
most dangerous passage lay defore her, yet
still did her taper masts bend beneath the
weight of canvass—still her keel untouched
by rock er bar, and or she sped. Soon the
crooked windings of the channel were all
passed, the last sunken rock was ieft behiad,
while the Frizate, though within the distan-e
of haif a mile, had near two miles to run. ere
‘she conld gain the open sea. The deep
*thank God ! of those on shore, told that all
danger was passed, and asrthe keel of the Pri.
~vateer touched the ocean, a ball was seen for
'a momeant suspended at her mast head. which
soon unwinding itself.chatlittle piece of siriped
' bunting—*the Star Spangled Banner'—which
' tlad before been hoisted, opened to view, as
“the saucy little Privateer, in defiance, opened
' a fire on the Frigate, which being still within
Ithc harbor, could net return it. The shout
| which thea rose from the shore—{rom Amer
l icans, Frenchmen, and from the men of all
| nations, save the Enlish, seemed 10 shake the
ivevy tleavens, so loud and dealening was it,
and the cheers were resnmed again and again,
! as when the Frigate dashed out of th» harbor
| it was seen that the Privateer, then runaing
| before ker best wind was alceady hall down at
, sea, and was soon {ost to the eye in the ro
| tundity of the ocean.
[ The Frigate afier Hursuing the chase for a
|shnrl distance, gave it up and returned, that
{ might, to the harbar.
She remained not long ia the station, for
the verv boys in the streets would talk of the
chase, whea the officers of the Frigve were
passing, for the purpose of taunting them, and
the aitir getting wind, the people of the oth
er Islands took «t up, and the Captain was
soon glad to leave for another cruising ground.
Though half the time allotted to man has
passed, since from the hill side at St. Kirs |
viewed that chase, vet are its incidents deep
ly graven on my memory. They have never
yet found their way into the papers, and to
give your readers a sketch of a scene, even
the recollection of which excites a thrill of
pleasure, | have in my rude way trauscribed it.
A NARROW ESCAPE.
The following iacident is related by a cor
respondent of the Charleston News. It is
quite new to us, and carries on its fuce an aiz
of improb.bility, though we cannot undertake
to say that ne such thing occiirred. \We can
hardly suppose that naval commanders would
venture 1o rush intv hostilities with no better
warrant than a mere casual report. supplied
by a chance encounter with an unknown in
formant. [fsuch athing is possible, however,
it seems to us that it would be worth while to
make provision against the hazard of such a
rasult.
[t woull ke satisfactory if the writer in the
News would give the names of the English
and Ameiican vessels referred to, and of their
commanders :
In a cooversation a day or two since with
one of our gallant naval officers, he commu
vicated to me a remarkable incideat connect
ed with the war which did not break out be
tween the Uuited Siates and Great Britain on
the North Eastarn bouadary question, a few
years siaca. You will recollect that at one
time, a rupture between the iwo countries, on
that subject, was considered tnevitabla by a
great many whose opinions were eatitled to
consideration. About sunrise on one fine
morning, a large frigate of our navy espied a
large ship on the horizon, which, after a few
hours' sailing, nroved to be a first class (rigate
of the British navy, beloaging to the West
India squadron.
By ao extriordinary coincidence the com
mander of the British vessel had a few days
previously hailed a ship. the captain of which
informed him that the Uogited States had de
clared war against England on thie boundary
question, and that a captain of a vessel which
the Ainerican commander hailed, reportad
that England had declared war wgainst the
United States. Simultaneously. and as if by
concert, the American and Britiza flags were
hoisted, and soon afiet the order ta *prepare
fur action, double shot the guns !” was given
on board each vessel, In five minutes both
were ready to commence the work of death
and destruction.
The vessels were within miles of each
other, and then conenced a trial of seamauship,
of nautical skill, each using every artifice and
every expedient to get to the windward of the
other, in order to select a position that would
enable the successful one to do the other the
most injury by a single broadsile. For six
loog hours did the two frigates strive in this
way. Never were orders given in a clearer
voice, or more readily or willingly executed.
But it became apparent that in sailing quali
ties the American was superior to the British
frizate, and that in another tack she would ac
complish what her commander was so skill
fully striving to do.
She *bouted ship,” went around beautifully
and directed her course towards the supposed
enemy. Soon the [rigate approached. Not
a word was spoken or even whispered by any
of the crew of either vessel The evesof all
were intently and eagerly fixed on the com
manders, who, trumpet in hand, occupied a
position where they could be seen by all, and
from which their orders woul i be heard by all.
The gunners were at their guns, the matches
were 10 their hands, all ready to be instanta
neously applied. All were as silent as death
Iself.
And now the vessels are quite close, and
the order to fire is about to be given—a mo
ment of dreadful suspense ensnes—ihe Amer
ican commander appiies the trumpet to his
month—he speaks—
‘Frigate ahoy "
No answer for a moment.
*Frigate ahoy
Awful suspense.
‘tallo !" was the answer at Jast.
*Any news from England V'
*No," was responded in a deep, clear and
SONOIOUS voice.
The crew zave ven: to a liitle of their pent
up excitemont.
*Where are you bound ¥’
‘Havana.’
*Frigate ahoy !" said the British command
er in his turn.
*Hallo,” was the response.
*Any news from the United States 7'
*No.'
A pause which lasted for some minutes.
*Where are you bound 1"
‘Hivana.'
Simultaneously 4 bustle ensued oa beard
both frigates. lo defiince ol discipline, the
men left their guns, and it was full a quarter
of an hour betore they could satisfly themselves
that they were not going into an engagement.
Wishing each other a prosperous passage, the
two vessels altered their courses and headed
for the port of their destination.
In afew days they both reached Havana, the
American frigate some tweive hoursin ad
vance. When the British vessel got to anchor,
she was saluted by the American, and the
compliment was returued. [n the evening the
two commanders supped together, and com
municated to each other the inaccuracy of
the intelligenc> which had, by a singular co
incidence, been conveyed to bath.
*lf you had fired asiegle gun,’ said the Amer
ican commander, ‘I would have fired a broad
side into you.
*My crew,” sail the British commander,
‘were at their posts, and prepared on the first
hostile demonstration to engage with you.'
What a bloody engagement wonld oot that
have been? 1 need hardly say that the two
commanders *‘made a night of it," and parted
bosom friends in the morning,
IsprovEMEST Inv Locomorives.—-The
Hariford Times says that recent improvemeu:s
have Leen made in locomotives, by which those
now generally in use will soon beentirely super
ceded. ‘T'he principal improvementis said to
consist inan eulargement of the driving wheels
from a diameter of 5 or 6 feet, toone of 70r 8
feet, and ihe substituiion of anthracite coal for
wood, as a 2 mens of generating the steam.—
[t is computed that this change alone on the
Hariford and New Haven road would save
about £15.000 prr anaum, or one half of the
present expense of engine fuel. A new loco
motive with 8 feet driving wheels, adapted to
the burning of wnthraci‘e, has lately been placed
upon the Camlen and Awmboy railroad, andis
stated to heve been run with complete success,
surpassing the old ones in speed as well as n
ecovomyof (nel. Thesame result has aitend
ed the introduction of a newly contrived en
gine upon the Boston and Worcester railroad
a few days since. This engine has two driv
ing wheels of 7 feet diameter placed in the
centre. and four smmall wheels upon each side.
The advantaze of ihis construction is, that the
weight upon the driving wheels may be var.ed
from 6000 to 28.000 pounds, as the lightness
or heaviness of the gradients may require,
and thus save the wear and tear of the rails on
} a level or descending grade, which cannot be
~done by the cll-fashioned engines. In a
heavy, ascendinz grade, nrearly the whole
weight of the engine is thrown upon the wo
driving wheel:, thus giving them immense ad
hesive power, or ‘hite," as it is te:hnically
termed, while on a level or descending grade,
the weightisdistributed all uver the ten wheels,
l in such a way as to reduce the wear of the rails
and roadway to a minimum.
This engzine weighs twenty-eight tons ; it is
constructed fur burniug anthracite coal It
takes in its tender one ton of this fuel, which
is computed 1o be equal to rwo cords of wond.
It can run wwice as far without stopping for
fu=l as the old-fashioned engines, and its per
formance thus far has been attended with com
plete success.
ScoLping CmiLopreN.—l wiil tell vou what
good it does to scold at your children for do
ing what you told them not to do—just as
much good as to scold an unruly ox for jump
ing over the fence and eating the green corn
contrary to orders previously given to him.—
Children are governed by two motives; the
hope of reward and the fear of unpleasant con
sequences. A stream ol scolding as long as
from sun to sun vever yet had any other ef
fect upon children than to render them wholly
regardless of what is said to them. If you
wish to make vourchildren traublesome, scold
them occasionally. If you wish 1o make them
bad, scold at them a little harder, louder, and
more frequently. If you wish to ruin them
and relinquish all hope of conquering them,
scold continually ; you will be sure to gain
your object.
MiLiTaARY SKiLL,—The lamented Col.
Duocan, of the United States army, had drilled
his 'nen to such perfection in artillery, and to
such celerity of movement, that on one occa
sion when his guns were under their sheds,
the horses of the light battery in stables, and
the harness hanging up, he accomplished the
feat of harnessinz up, moving the guns two
hundred yards, forming 1 batiery, and firing
a round, in a space of a minute and a hall
from the time the first command was given.
Another feat in war's vast art is said to have
been accomplished by the Cadets at West
Point, while reviewing before the Board of
Visitors. One half of the regular number of
men threw a Poatoon bridge vn the Hudson.
cap: ble of snpportiog cavalry and artillery. and
two hundred aud fifty feet ia length, in thirty
tvo minutes.
Aar oF T.iees.—F anklia mentions two
Cypresses wiich the Persians believed to be
600 yexrs old. Charden meniions a jlane
tree of 1000 years. Forbes says that he
smoked hisnookha urd-rthevery Banyan be
neath which part of Alexande:'s cavalry took
sh lier; and the age of the oaks of Lebancn
is said to be 2000 years.
ENVELOPES FOR MARRIAGE CARDS.
THB subscriber has just rec’d aﬂul variety of silver
spring and silver ornamented velopes, of the best
quall'l&, suitable for wedding cards.
Parisian en.bossed edge llou Paper, with ﬂg-nd envel
opes to match; Marion’s Note, Letter and Billet Paper,
with gilt and plain edges ; colored edge Envelopes and pa
per ; black edge Letter and Note Paper, with Enveloupes.
Waedding Cake Boxes, Transparent and Cameo Wafers,
with a general assortment of Parisian Faucy Stationery.
For sale by the quantity or reta |, at low rku.
di2 GEO. H. WHITNEY, 3 Westminster st.
BOOKS.
THE Miscellaneous Works of Oliver Goldsmith, includ
ing a varietv of pieces now first collected, by James
Prior, m 4 vols., vol | rec’d.
‘t'he Neighbors, a story of every day life, by Frederika
Bremer, transiated from the Swedish, by Mary Howitt, re
ceived and for sale by
dl2 GEO. H. WHITNEY, 3 Westmins er st.
THE BOSTON ALMANAC FOR 1850,
CONTAINING a map of the New England States, a
complete business directory, a memorandum for every
month in the year, and many other useful tables, for sale
by the dezen or single copy b{
dis GEO. H. WHITNEY, 3 Westminster st.
GET A BOOK.
'l\ HE cheapest amusen:ent in the world is the perusal of
good books. WINSOR, 140 Westminstesst, will sup
ply you with any of the choice publications of «he da‘y.
Greenwood’s Leaves, a collection of Sketches and Let
ters, by Grace Greenwood.
Shirley—a Tale—by Currer Bell, author of Jane Eyre.
The Golden Calf, or Prodigality and Speculatian in the
Nineteenth Century.
Hearts and Homes, or Social Distinctions. A story by
Mrs. Ellis, 2 vols.
Me oirs of Wm. Wirt, by John P. Kenned(.
Modern Vassal, a story o{?uland, by John Wilmer.
Hawk’s Egvpt.
Lvoch’s Dead Sea Expedition. .
dal2 LABAN W. WINSOR, 110 Westminster st.
CARSON'S PAPER.
LE’I’I‘BR and Foolscap Paper, trom the celebrated man
ufactory of Carson & Brothers, Old Berkshire, for sale
very low by the ream or quire at 140 Westminster st, by
dls LABAN W. WINSOR.
BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATED EDITIONS.
'l‘ HE History of Ras:elas, Prince of Abisinia, a tale.
The Vision of Theodore. oa YR
The Fountains, a fairy tale, by Samuel Johnson, LL. D.,
with remarks on the writings and character of Dr. John
son, emballished with illuminationsand engravings intint,
from original designs by Eevereux.
The Life of Christ, delineated in the saries of event-« re
corded in the New Tastament, by Rev. H. 111-tinp Weld,
embellished with illustrations in tint and illuminations
from original drawings by Devereux.
P-ul and Virginia, by Bernardin St. Pierre, with a me
moir of the author, beantifully illustrated and embellished
with engravings and illuminati ns, &c.
Vicar of Wakefield, a tale, by Oliver Goidemith, with
ten engravings in tint and two illuminations, uniform with
Paul and Virginia, for sale by
dl3 WEEDEN & PEEK, cor 8 Main and College sts.
ALMANACS FOR 1850.
BORTON Almanac for 1850 ; American Almanac for
1850 ; Marsh’s Diaries of all sizes and styles for 1850 ;
Diaries and Almanacs, of various kinds. a general assort
ment, for sale by WEEDEN & PEEK, 2 S. Main st.
GOOD MANNELRS.
TIIE Well Bred Boy and Girl, or New School of Good
M nners.
T'he Story of Stories, or Fun for the Littie Ones.
Poems and Prose \Writings, by Richard Henry Dana, in
2 vols, just published and for sale by .
dls GLADDING & PROUD.
SELF LOVE,
BY Robert Cushman, 1621, ‘‘the first sermon preached
in New England, and the oldest extant ot any deliver
ed in Amevsica, with the autograghs of some of the Pilgrim
Fathers, for sale by GLADDING & PROUD.
LADY'’S BOOK FOR 1850.
T HE January number is received which commences the
new volume. Subscriptions solicited at the lowest
price, by GLADDING & PROUD, 21 Westminster st.
HOLIDAY PRESENTS.
TRE most useful holivay present ever published in this
country is the Bouquet of Melody for 1850, a collection
of songs, duetts, waitzes, polkas, and quadrilles, written
expressly for this work and never before published, com
posed and arranged by the most ce’ebrated American com
posers. The music is within the capacuty of ordinary play
ers. The most fastiduous musician could not in any way
find tault with the compositions. It is unlike most annu
ala, which, after one perusal, are thrown aside, or kept as
a mere ornament for the ~entra table. It is a work that
will be of use for years. The elegant style in which this
work is got up will claim for it a place among the works
of taste and beauty. Call and examine at LELAND'S
Music S.ore. dl2
LINEN GOODS.
(’ﬂ F. GLADDING & CO. have just rec’d extra fine
¥ o and common qualities Irish Linen Sheetings, 98, 5-4
and 6-1 Pillow Linens; fine undressed Shirting Linens;
estra fine do, for collars, &c; fine white Linen Damask
Table Cloths, Napkins and Doylies; Linen Damasks, of
various width= and qualities, by the yard ; heavy Russia
Linen Damasks; brown do; heavy brown Damasks for
floor cloths ; Stair Linens ; Russia, Scotch and Huckerbuck
Diapers, of various qualities ; Russia and Scotch Crash ;
pink plaid Grass Towelling ; fine Irish Rirdseye Diapers,
with a great variety of other Linen Goods all warranted
ﬂlre linen, for sale at the lowest possible prices at 35 I}gth
ain st. «
BROADCLOTHS, &c.
(‘ER)!AN AND FRENCH RL:\I‘I( BROADCLOTHS,
¥ &c.—G. F. Grapvixg & Co. have “ec’d an assortin *nt
of the above superior Cloths, bought at reduced prices ; al
so fancy colored Cloths of Foreign and America manu
facture, far sale very cheap, at 35 North Main st. di2
RIBBUONS.
LADIES, do not fail of taking vour chances in the great
rsh at COOPER’S. Beautifui assortment of Ribbons
selling at cost. Milliners will find =ome rich patterns for
trimming satins and velvets; also, velvet embossed Ribs
bons and Cnfs. 63 Westininster st. dls
VELVET RIBBONS AND CUFFS.
\ BEAUTIFUL assortment, at COOPER’S, 63 West
-4N minster st. di2
CURTAIN MUSLINS, TABLECOVERS. &ec.
JITST re eived at COOPER 8 one price store, many new
styles Curtain Muslins, ‘U'able Covers, Linans, Damasks,
&c, selling very cheap. 63 Westminster st. dl2
BRUSSELS CARPETINGS.
(‘! EO. E. WILLIAMS & CO. offer for sale Brnssels Car-
X petings at a very low price, &receivml from New York
auctions.) Exchange Building, Westminster st. dl?2
STATR CARTETINGS.
GEO. E. WILLIAMS & CO. have in store a few pieces
of Stair Carpetings, in new designs. Exchange Build
ing, Westminster st.
Also, Stair Rods, in expensive and common kinds. dl2
OIL CARPETS.
O". Carpeta, heavy and wide, in new designs, for halls,
offic:s, &e. GEO. E. WILLIAMS & CO,
Exchan e luilding, Westminster st.
Alsn, cases of medium and common O:l Carpets, in nar
row widths. di2
GENTLEMEN’'S FURNISHING GOODS.
J’ L. KIMBALL, 17 Wastminster st, offers for sale an
« extensive stock of fine Shirts ; splendid silk and satin
Cravats and Scarfs ; black, white, and col’d kid Gloves,
best quality : Berlin lined Gloves ; buck do, and Mittens;
Braces, various styles ; Under Vests and Drawers ; woolen
Mnutiles and Tippets; siik and linen Pocket Hdkfs, likewise
a host of articles not herein mentioned, ull of which will
bo offered at the lowest possible prices. dl5
BROADCLOTHS, CASSIMERES,
AND RITH VESTINGS—An extensive assortment of
the above named articles, embracing every desirable
skade and quality, which will be sold by the yard or made
up to order in a sunerior manner, at KIMBALL’S Custom
Room. Entrasce No. 19 Westminster st. Rooms Nos. 3
and 5, up stairs. J. L. KIMBALL.
PANTS AND VESTS.
AN immense variety, comprising the newest styles made
and trimmed in the best styles. Call and examine
them at KIMBALL’S, 17 Westminster st.
~____ POLKA BOOTS. ;
’\IISS ES’ morocco and goat Polka Boots, of best quality,
AV for sale low hy LZRA BAKER, 55 ¥, Main st.
POLKA AND LACE BOOTS.
C HILDREN’Sthick soled morocco Polkaand Lace Boots,
for sale by EZRA BAKER, 55 8. Main st.
A PENNY SAVED IS A PENNY GAINED.”
A GOOD workman alway: selects the best quality of
Tools. To such and others we would <ay, our stock
consists of Smith’s bench and moulding Planes, Groves’
hand and panel Saws, Smith & Snells Augers and Auger
Bitts, and other kinds of T'ocls, celebrated by an undisput
ed quality and superior finish. We wonld also have the
public understand that wa buy our goods for cash, mark
them at a living profit and adhere with few exceptions to
the one price systems.
dl2 GARDINER & PHILLIPS, 53 Broad st.
SHONESTY, THE BEST POLICY.”
A PAIR of Stubb’s 7 inch Plyers was stolen from our
store, on the 7th inst. The thief, whether Knigit or
Day, is respectfully informed that our goods are invariably
counted when displayed befure our customers, and that
the repetition of this or a similar offence will not only be
exposed, but handled over to the *“ten:ler mercies’ ol the
law. GARDINER & PHILLIPS.
COFFEE URNS.
A GOOD assgortment of French Coffee Urns, of superior
manufacture, rec’d this day and for sale at 51 and 53
North Main st. THOMAS WHITAKER & SON.
HALL LANTERNS.
A LARGE assortment of rich stained and cut glass Hall
Lanterns, justrec’d and for sale at reduced prices at
51 and 53 North Main st.
d. 2 THOMAS WHITAKER & SON.
DINING, TEA AND TOILET WARE.
l 4 CR\ATES Edwards’ white iron stone Dining, Tea
and Toilet Ware, just rec’d and fur sale at the low
est prices at 31 and 53 North Main st.
di2 THOMAS WHITAKER & SON.
TAN S on eN . I A
4 CASES ivory handled Knives and Forks, Knives with
out Forks, Carvers and Forks, Beef Slicers, Game Car
ver=, &c,just rec’d and for sale at the manufacturers’ pri:
ces, at 51 and 33 North Main st.
dl3 THOMAS WHITAKER & SON.
WHITEZ FROSTING,
FOI scenic effect, &c, for sale at the Great Mortar, 13
and 45 North Main st, by
12 H. H. BURRINGTON, Druggist.
s .
500 bales extra Timot-h-y-.. for sale by
dl5 WM. WHIPPLE BROWN.
FLOUIt.
300 BBLS extra family Flour, from new wheat, a su
perior article, for sale by
dis WM. WHIPPLE BROWN, 1 W. Water st.
COQUIMBO GUANO. .
50 TONS, for sale by
dl5 WM. WHIPPLE BROWN.
v b % o I ik <
5 TONS, steam pressed, for sale by
dl5 WM. WHIPPLE BROWN.
CHINESE ROUGE,
A NOVEL article, and much celebrated in China, for
imparting to the skin a most lively and natural color,
fer sale at the Great Mortar, 43 and 45 North Main st, by
die H. H. BURRINGTON, Druggist.
GERMAN COLOGNE.
FRANCOIS Mario Farina, rue de la Cloche No. 4711, a
Cologne. This article is the most celebrated perfume
in the world. The genuine may be had by the box or bot
tle, at the Great Mortar. 43 and 45 North Main st, by
dn il H. BURRINGTON, Druggist.
CAUTION.
WHER EAS, the known celebrity resulting from the ef
ficacious cures which Morse’s “CoMrovsp Srxur or
Yeirow Dock Root,” has produced in cases of Scroruta,
Savt Ruevm, King’s Evie, Urcess, ErvsirEras, Jaun
pice, Liver Compraint, Dysrersy, Serine CoMpLaInNTs,
Gexerar Desiuiry, and a variety of other pisgasks, has
induced many to imitate this valuable article, and deceive
the public by vendingthat which is spuriousand calculated
to give a false impression in regard to its just merits, this,
therof. re, is to caution those who wish to make use of the
genuinearticle against purchasing aly except such as is put
up in oval quart bottles, with tho signature of the inventor
and sole proprietor, CHARLES MORSE, Jr,upon the wrap
per; all uther kinds and shapes are spurious, let them em
inate from where they may.
Those att~mpting to pa wn upon the public an imitation
of the article may expect that prosecution will be instituted
for an infringement of the cory riGut which has been se
cur~d for it. e sebß A
The name of the genuine original article is *‘Coxrovxp
Syrue oF Yerrow Dock Roor.’” Itis purely vegetable
and prepared only by CHARLES MORSE, Jr, theinventur
and sole proprietor, at 102 Fountaiu street. (formerly at 167
Broad street,) and to him alone is the composition known
[t is sold in Providence by
J. Balch & Son, E. P. Mason,
A. F. Adie, C. AL WL Saoew,
C. Dyer, Jr, H. H. Burrington,
. Rowe & Co, Wm. R. Arnold,
Dr. O. Samn->r, B. D. Bailey,
E. T. Clarke, T. W. B(I:K,
Job L. Prat, Fenner & Harrington,
C. C. Najac, Thos Dingley.
James Kelley, Olneyville
Albert C. Jencks, Pawtucket
Dr. H. Stocknridge, Woonsocket
James Ilelmne, do
Daniel Sayles, do .
Reuel P. Smith, do
Joha Cady, I ackstone
M. B. Greene, Worcester
James Greene & Co, do
D. Scott, Jr & Co, do
C. C. G. Hazard, Newport
Albert C. Congdon, East Greenwich
Daniel Carter, do |
J. M. Anthony, Fall River
N. A. & A. R. Spragu>, Nantucket |
John A. Wood, Swanzey
James Gardiner, Warren |
Briggs & Drury, Bristol |
Johu B. Munroe, do |
A. & W. Sprague, Natick |
H. W. Emmons, lope Village
D. G Stone, Plhenix |
Jesse L. Mess, Westerly |
F. A. Parmer, Stonington |
Dr. Newton Southworth, Mattaposet
Rev. Samuel Wiid, Long Plain
S O. Duunbar, Taunton
A. J. Barker, do |
Juseph Marshall, Dorchester |
Edward Arnold, Marblehead
C. 11, Pinkham 4 Salem :
Aungustus N. Clarke, Beverly
Mrs. Bacon. Lynn |
Eben Jackson, Jr & Co, Buston |
Carlton & Hovey, Lewell
Hunter & Thornton, New Uedford |
E. Thornton, Jr, do |
Albert Gifford, do |
Dryden Smith, Dover . |
Win. H. Babbirt, New York city |
Jas. Wair, do |
A. B. Robbins, do |
H. H. Jones. do |
A. H. Gough & Co, do 1
W. Stephens, do
W. H. Hall. do |
W. W. Thayer, do
J. Evrard, do
R. C Roberts, do |
Weeks & Anderson, do |
Thomas & Maxwell, do! |
G. Benjamin, Belfast, New York
L. D. Coburn, Cazenovia, do
M. Evans, East Brooklyn, do
E. C. Lyon, Pitcher, do
H. M. Babeock, Westfield, do
Jno I. Halliday, Port Gibson, do
Fellows & Co, Ratavia, do
Goulding & l.oet, Potsdam, do
Jacison & Fuan, Butfulo, do
W. Williams, do do
J. Gallup, Palmyra, do
H. D. Wade, Rochester, do
= opkins & Dix, Glenn’s Fulls, do
D. A. Moure, Syracuse, do
Foster & Dickinson, Ultica, do
Dr. A. Truax, Schenectady, do
Geo. Dexter, Albany, do
Rossman & McKiastry, lulson, do
Mrs. Hays, Rrooklyn, do
G. W. Fay & Co, Owego, TiogaCo, N Y
Hampton & Herndon, Abendeen, Miss
Buel, Sheldon & Co, West Stockbridge, Mass
Dr. J. Shed, Danvers, do
J. Emerson, Salem, do
W. Endicott, Beverly, do
F. T. Whitney, Great Barrington, do
H. Beanett, Danbaiy, Colla
S. C. Gorham, New Haven, Conn
J. C. De Lacone, Camden, N J
Juno. Pearson, Rahway, do
J. H. Flood, Paterson, do
J. 1. Andrews, Almont, Mich
E. A. Graves, Niles, do
F. W. De Berard, Racine, Wisconsin
do Shebaygan, do
do Southport, do
A. W, Hatch, M:lwankie, do
D. D. Fiske, Portsmouth, Va
Tisdale & Hirdenburgh, Richmond, Va
Ruste & Paddock, New Ovrieans
Henderson Punderson& Co,Cleveland, Ohio
Bennett & Morgan, Savannah, Geo
J. B. Marchise, Utica, N Y
A. T. Woodward, St Louis, Mo
O. A. Amies, Morrisown, Pa
O. D. Jenkins, Pottsville, Pa §
Blanch & Carp, Harrisburg; Pa
E. H. Stable & Co, Baltimore, Md
J. P. Wilsur, Porsia PO,NY
Cook, Baker & Co, San Francisco, California
C. C. Richinond & Co, do do
And by a large number of others. m 8
HOUSE FURNISHING DRY GOODS.
LAI{GE AS~ORTMENT OF HOUSE FURNISHING
DRY GOOD3—G. F. GLADDING & CO. have rec’d
alinost every variety of linen, cotton and woolen house
keeping goods, consisting of wiite and brown Linen Dam
ask ‘l'able Cloths, of all sizes and qualities ; Linen Damask
Napkins and Doylies; extra large Damask Napkins; fine
Huckerbuck do, with damask borde:s ; do do, with striped
borders ; Huckerbuck Toweiling, various qualities : Russia
Crash ; fine soft Dowlas f:r giasscloths ; Russia and Scotch
Damasks, f various wiiths, by the yard ; Barnsley Linen
Sheetings and Pidlow Linens, various widths and qualities ;
brown and black and white Linen Floor Cloths; colored
plaid T'able Covering by the yard ; worsted and cotton col
ored Table Covers, all sizes; colored embossed Table,
Stand and Piano Covers, in new and beautiful patterns |
worsted Damasks and More-ns; English and American
Farniture Chintzes ; Cuartain do; white Curtain Muslins;
German Oil Cloths, in very rich patterns: American white
and English white and colored Quilts : Criband Cradledo;
Bed Comforters; white and colored Toilet Covers ; Toilet
Sets ; also,a large assortment of brown and bleached Sheet
ings and Shirtings, § to 2§ yards wide; Furniture Plaids;
Tickings of the most approv -d manufacture, &c, &c, all of
which they otfer at the lowe t pissible prices at 35 North
Main st. ml 7
ACCOUNT BOOKS, PAPER,
A ND STATIONARY—"Tne subscr.ber invi'es attention
to his extensive and well selected stock of Account
Books, Paper, Stationery, &c.
Account Books, ruled to all the patterns in general use ;
al'o manufactured to oider to any pattern and style re
quired, and warrauted to give satistaction.
Writing Papars, of every description, including blue,
white laid and wove Letter and Cap Papers, of En;liﬂh
and American manufa~ture ; Playing Cards.
- Note Paper and Envelopes, plain and fancy.
Inks—English and American writing, copying, blue and
red Inks. B i Aty . 5
Sealing Wax and Wafers—Jones’, Victoria, Harp and
Dutch Crown Sealing Wax ; Royal, 2carlet and Red Wa
fers, assorted sizes.
Steel Pens, of Gillott’s, Windle’s, Hertz’s, Perry’sand
Leman’s manufacture.
Gold Pens, from the different manufacturers.
Quills—A full assortment, of all sizes.
Whatman's Drawing Papers— A full assortment.
Slates—Hard wood frame Schoo! and Log Slates ; proce
lain Slates and Tablets.
Cutlery—Pen and Pocket Knives, Erasers, &c.
GEO. H. WHITNEY,
f 7 successorto C. Burnett, Jr, 3 Westminster st
WESTMINSTER LIBRARY.
‘VE have established a circulating Library, with the
above name, in connexion with our booxstore, at 140
Westminster st, and shall be happy to receive the calls of
th» reading community in town and country. We have
nearly one thousand volumes to offor at the start, compriss
ing the most valuable in every department of Literature,
Biography, History, Voyages and Travels, Domestic Econ
omy, Poetry, all the best novels and the latest works on
jhe ancient and modern sciences. Additions will be made
from day to day of new works, as soon as they are issued
from thorns. Rich, rare and racy Antiquarian Works
will be added occasionally. We shall endeavor to accom
modate the wants of the public and we solicita share of
public patronage. L. W. WINSOR.
BOOIK NOTICE.
BOOKS. Pamphlets, Pictures, Globes, Maps, &c, of every
description, will be bouczht ard paid for in cash at 140
Westminster st. Boxes of old Pamphlets, &c, stowed
away in your attics, will generallv pay for removal and
benefit community by being put in circulation. We know
what books are, and will pay accordiug to their real mer
chantable value. Gentlemen havisg valuahle Books or
qaantities of old Pamphlets for sale, which itisnotconven
ient to remove, will be waited upon at their residences it
desired. L. W. WINSOR.
BOOKS,
PUI‘.I.IC and private li-b;{r'i;:'.n'npplied with any Books
published in this country at very low prices for cash by
ml? L. W. WINSOR, 140 Wes*minster st.
LOOKING GLASSES,
l 00 DOZ common Lookingz Glas<es, jnst rec’d and for
sale unusually low at 51 and 53 North Main st.
f 7 THOMAS WHITAKER& SON.
EARTHEN WARE.
5() CRATES common Earthen Ware, suitable for coun
. try stores, just rec’d and for sale veryilow at 51 and
53 North Main st THOMAS WHITAKER & SON,
~ STAIR ARPETINGS.
BRIISSELS ani Venitian S4air (‘nrmllna,&un rec’d at
Carpet Hall by ROB'T STEERE & BROTHER.
RHODEISLANDAGRICULTURAL WARE
ROOM AND SEED STORE,
No. 36 Broap sl, PrévipEncE.
FIELD, GRASS, GARDEN AND FLOWER SEEDS,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
OUR Seeds can be relied on as genuine and fresh,asthe
greatest care has been 'aken in sel ction, and the
greater part are ruised expressiy for us by the most experi
enced sced growers in the country.
Hay Cutters, Corn Shellers, Plonghs of every description,
including the ce ebrated Martin Plongh, which is now con=
sidered by the most competent judges the best in use.
We keep constantly on hand a fu!l and complete assort
ment of Agricultural Implements, mang of which are new
and of the latest improvement.
CROWELL’S PATENT THERMOMETER CHURN.
We would invite the attention of farmers and others to
this Churn, as being superior to anything heretufore used,
m 3 WM. M SNOW & CO,
WILDER'S PATENT SALAMANDER IRON
SAPFES,
MANUFACTURED BY
SILAS C HERRING, New York
A TRIAL was made before a Committee of emment Mer
chants at the foot of Wull street, New-York, for the
purpose ol'teslins the fire-proof qualitic s of Wilder’s Patent
Salamanderr Safe, as compated with those cla‘med for
Jesse Delano’s, C. J. Gayler’s Patent Double, and Scott's
Patent Asbestos Safe. The subjoined extract from the
Committee’s Report, with the names of the gentlemen who
readered that decisive verdictattached, presents clearly and
concisely the result of the experiment.
EXTRACT.
The above was a fair trial, and was tous a convincing
proof of @ superiority of the Salamander Safe over all oth
ers; and considering that it was exposed to an intense heat
for a period of eight hours, while each of the others were
destroyed by the same heat in less than two hours, We
have no hesitation in saying, that we consider Wilder's
Salamander Safe really fire-proof, and affording perfect se
curity to books and papers in case ol fire. Ve therefore
take much pleasure in making this statement to the public,
and in recommending to them Wilder’s Patent Salamander
Sate, as fully entitled to their couniidence.
WADSWORTH & SMITH, )
BALDWIN £ CO. ! :
MI.\"I‘URIN & CO. + Commniittee.
“HARLES I, MARSIHALL, )
(7--,, aan 4t11,’
Subsequent accidental trials have been equally satisf e
tary as can be shown by numerous certificates and testi.
monials, and also by the Safe, which was tested in tle
burning of the building occupied by Messrs, Stone & Wea
ver, in this city, last December, and wiich can be seen at
the store of BROWN, BARKER & CO.; No. 53 Market
Street ; and have anassortment of the Genuine Salamande;
Safes, for sale at manunfacturer’s prices. fl 7
CAYTION.
AS my Spanish Lustral and Medicated Hair Preservative
has acquired a high reputation, and is almost unive:sal-
Iy used for promoting the growth and preserving and beauti
fying the hair, another article has been hrought hefore the
public under the same name, but entirely ditfercnt in ite
composition and effect, and [ hereby caation the public nat
to be taken in by it, but always to mguire for “Camm ¢
Spanish Lustral” and vse no other, it they wish to be se
cure from deception. The ingredients, and a portion of
them can only be vbtained from the Sparish markets, and
the manner of compounding the Lustral are knewn ouly te
myself, the secret having been communicated to me S
years since by a distinguished surgeon in Ed nturgh, S 0.
land, and was by me introduced to the public for the fir t
time. My Spanish Lustral may be Known by its bright gold
en color, being free frcm all coloring matter which is a'-
ways injuricus to the hair, and 1 wouid caution the public
not to use any article of red color for the hair, as it must
tend to injare it very materially, and above all to purchase
no article bearing the name of Spanish Lusiral unless my
name is attached to it, as all others are vile initations, cal
culated to deceive those who are unacquainted with the
genuine and highly approved Cammw’s Spanish Lustral.—
For sale by the proprictor,
T. W. CAMM, 38 South Main st.
And also by CHARLES DYER, Jr., 40 and 42 Westmine
ster st., sole agent tor the Spanish Lustral. aul2—r
LELAND'S MUSIC STORE.
Musical instruments and Musical Mer
chandise, can be obtained at this estab
lishment, of every description, and of
the very best guality, consisting of sepe
rior Guitars, plain and ornamental, at prices trom §5 te
$25; Flutes of every description, from $1 to §25; Clari
nets, Flagelcts and Fifes, of various Kinds of wood and
finish ; Violins at every price from £1 50 to 835 ; lirass in
struments ef every kind ; Bavjos; Tamborines; Tuning
Forks; Pipes ; Jlammers ; Reeds ; Bridges ; Strings ; Rosin ;
Pous ; Bow lair; Violin Bows, and Violin Trimuangs ot
allkinds ; also, Seraphines; Melodeons ; Accordeons ; Mu.
sic Boxes; Music Racks, and Folios, &e.
Glee and Masie Instruction Bouks for every instrument
THE SHEET MUSE'—Consists of an extensive stock
of old and new music. The publications of every store in
the country can bo obtained at this store. Purchasers will
find all the newest ad wost favorite Songs and Pieces
continually for sale. Piano Fortesto let, at prices from §§
lo_OIQA;!o‘r quart-r; also, second hand Piznos for sule.
- PIANO FORTES tuned and warranted togive satisfac
tion.
REPAIRING of every kind of Masical Instinments
with neatness and in the most expeditions manner.
The price of Music, Instruments and Merchandise as
sold at this estabhishment, as low,if not cheaperthan New
York or Boston. Orders will be attended towithithe great
estcare by A. M. LELAND, 135 Westminster st. mylQ
PIANO FCRTEN.
The subscriberwould call the attention of
the public to his extensive assortment of
Piano Fortes, justr.ceived from the man
utactory of Hallet, Davis & Co, Boston.
The above named makers have received the diplomas atthe
two last fairs at Woicester and Boston. No better recom
mendation can be asked for than the above statement. Piaro
Fortes, with all the latest improvements, of various styles
of cases, made from mahogany orrosewood, at prices vary
ing from §l9O to §4lO, will be kept cominually for sale at
the manufacturers’ lowest prices. If yoswish to purchase
a good Piano at a low price, call and examine hefore pur
chasing elsewhere. Every instrument scld will be ware
ranted to give perfect satisfaction, or the money refunded.
P. 8. O!d Pianos wanted in exchange for new ;also
sacond hand Pianos for sale or to let. A. M. LELAND,
m 23 Howard’s Block, 135 Westminster st.
NEW MUSIC! NRW MUSIC!!
S. T. THURBER, 127 Westminster st,
has justrec’d several new Songs, Waltzes,
Polkas, Marches, Quick Steps, among
1 which are “Molly Bawn,” “Lament of
the Alpine Shepherd Buy.” Gipsey Boy, words by Eliza
Cook ; Christie’s celebrated Neg o Melodies ; tiazelle Polka;
Saratoga Polka; Theodura Polka; New York Fusilier’s
Grand Galop, &¢, &c, &e, &e. Fancy Goods and Toys of
the latest importation ; also,a large lot of French and Swiss
fancy work, consisting of Weork Baskets, embroidered and
plain with and without covers, of ail sizesand prices. Call
and see,at THURBER’S uew store, Museum Building,
(127 Westminster st, 127). a 7
NEW MUSIC. FANCY GOODS, &c.
S T. THURBER, 127 Westminsterst, Mu<eum building,
o has just rec’d a cho ce selection of the latestand most
fashionable Music, consisting ot Soungs, Duetts, Polkas,
Waltzes, Marches, Quick Sieps; together with the latest
numbers of the celebrated Negro Melodies of the Christy
Minstreis. Fancy Goods, consisting of I'rench and Swiss
Willow Baskets ; Bridal, Mourning and Dress Fans, scme
very beautifully embellished with water colored drawings,
mirrors and tasselled ; ladies® Dress Combs, of the latest
importation, manufactured expressly for the prevailing
sty le of French twist, consisting of shell, buffulo horn, &e,
ornamented in fresco, sprig, flowers,grape vine, &c; Toys
of all kinds and descriptions, at the lowest priccs. alB
= BASKETS AND FARNCY GOOMDs. ;
S T. THURBER, 127 Westminster st, Museum Build
* ing, calls the attention of the ladies to se¢ his new
stock of French 2nd Swiss Willow Baskets, just rec’d. of
begutiful patterns and workmanship, embroidered, &c;
Card and Cake Baskets; Ladies® Work Baskets, with and
without covers. Fancy Gnrods—New and beautiful style
of Faus, some very beautiful, with mirrors, tipped with
down and tasrelled, &c ; also, just rec’d a splendid lot of
ladies Hair Combs. manufactured expressly for the new
style of French Twist, consisting of Shell and Buffalo
Harn, &e, ornamented ir fresco-springand grape vine, &¢;
Fancy Gocds and Toys of all descriptions, at the lowest
prices al4
HOT AIR FURNACES, &c.
HA\'[NG purchased of Ingalls & Cushing ail their Hot
Air Furnace Patterns and Castings, Registers, &c., |
am prepared to sell Furnaces or parts of the same, and to
make Tin, Iron and Copper Pipes, and fit them to order.
These Hot Air Furnaces are well known to our citizens, a
great number being in operation in this city and in 1110
various towns in this and the adjoining States, By their
simple construction, ease of management,and an efficiency
in their operation, they are giving more general satisfaction
than any other kind of Furnace. One of Walker’s %!\'ew
York) patent Hot Air Furnaces for sale, which come high
ly recommended. Stoves of varions kinds, viz: Ship’s
Cambooses ; the Boston office and shop Stoves ;L. Wood's
(New York) patent Fuel Saver; Salamander Stoves, vari
ous sizes and patterns ; air tight wood Stoves ; Coal Hods,
Sifters and Shovels ; Russia, R. G. and commen Sheetlron
for sale as cheap as can be bought elsewhere. s
m 3 JOHN A. HOWLAND, 67 8. Main st.
GAS FITTING.
THO\I AS WHITAKER & SON, havingcompleted their
arrangements with the Providence Gas Co. to under
take the business of Gas Fitting, are now prepared to fit up
houses, stores, factories, &c, in a superior manner, and at
fair prices. All work done under their direction warrant
ed. Orders left at 51 and 53 North Main st, or with Mr,
James E. Hudson, at our workshop, 51 Canal st, or at the
office of the Gas Company, will be promptly attended to.
Also. a full assortment of Gilt, Bronze, Silver and Dam
ask Gas Chandaliers, Brackets, Fendants, &¢, of Cornelins
& Co’s manufacture, received and for sale at 51 and 53
North Main et. . au?29
PACKING ANDNEWS PRINTING PAPER
M ROBINSON, Howard’s Block, Museum Avenue,
¢ has on hand and keeps constantly for sa'e on the
most favorable termis packinz and news printing Papers;
of sizes 22 by 32, 34 by 34, 25 by 32, 25 by 36, and 25 by 38
nches ; also, colored Krinling Paper, various colors and
sizes ; wnnmng and hardware Paper, various sorts and
sizes, t office and package envelope do; writing and
Imuzu-,lu grest variety ; fancy colored Papers, &c.
For the Removal and Permanent Cure of all
NERVOUS DISEASES,
And of those Complaints which are cansed by an im
prired, weakened or unhealthy condition of the
NERVOUS SYSTEDM,
This beautiful and convenient application of the mr e
terious powers of GALVANISAM and MAGNETIS', has
been pronounced by distinguished physicimns, both n
Europe and the Umted States, to he the wos/ raluable
medicinal discovery of the JAze.
Dr. CHRISTIE'S GALVANIC BELT
and
MAGNETIC FLUID,
18 used with the most peifect and ce:tain success in ull
cuces of
GENERAL DERILITY,
Strengthening the weakened body, giving tonz to the
various organs, and invigorating the eutire systen Alse
in FITS, CRAMP, PARALYSIS and PALSY, D)SPEP-
SIA or INDIGESTION, RHEUMATISV, ACUTE and
CHRONIC, GOUT, EPILEPSY, LUMBAGO, DEAF.
NESS, NERVOUS TREMORS, PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, APOPLEXY, NEURALGIA, PAINS in
the SIDE and CHEST, LIVER COMPLAINT, SIINAL
COMPLAINT, and CURVATURE of the SPINE, HIP
COMPLAINT, DISEASES of the KIDNEYR, DEFL
CIENCY OF NERVOUS and PHYSICAL ENERGY,
and all NERVOUS DISEASES, which complaints arise
from one simple ause—namely,
A Derangement of the Nervous System.
@@= In NERVOUS COMPLAINTS, Drugs and Medi
cines increase the disease, for they weukeu the vital ener.
gies of the already prostrated system : while under the
strengthening, life-giving, vitalicing influence of Galvan.
ism, as applied by this beantiful and wonderful discovery,
the exhausted patient and wealened sutferer is restored
to former health, streugth. elasticity and vigor.
The great peculiarity and excallence of
Dr. Christie's Galvanic Curatives,
consists, in the fact that they arrest and cure disease by
outward application, in place of the nsusl mode of drug
ging and physicking the putient, till exhausted Nature
sinks hnpel,euly under the infiction.
They strengthen the whole system, equalize the circulotion
of lh:‘lood, promote the secvetions, and never do the shight
est injury wunder any circumsfances. Since their intro.
(‘le:cﬁon in the Unitet’ﬁlatel, only three years since, more
an
60,000 Persons
including all ages, classes and conditons. among which
were a large number of lalies, who are pecubiarly subject
to Nervous Complaints, have been
ENTIRELY AND PERMANENTLY CURED,
when 81l hope of relief hal been given up, and every
thing else been tried in vain!
To illustrate the use of the GALVANIC BELT,
suppose the case of a person afflicted with that bane of
civig:nion. DYSPEPSIA, or w#ny other Chromic or
Nervous Disorder. In ordinsry cases, stimunlants are
taken, which, by their action on the nerves and muscles
of the stomach, afford femporary relief, but which lesve
the patient in a lower state, and with mjured faculties,
alter the action thus excited hus ceased Now compare
this with the effect lesnlting from the application of the
GALVANIC BELT. Take 8 Dyspeptic suflerer, even
in the worse symptoms of an altuck, and simply tie the
Belt around tln body, usang the Magnetic Fluid as
directed. In a short period the mnsensible perspiiation
will act on the positive clement of the Beit thereby
causing a Galvanic circulation which will pass on to the
negative, and thence back agam to the positive, thus
keeping up a continuous Galvanic cuculstion threugheout
the -;nen. Thus the most severe cases of DYSPRPSIA
are PERMANENTLY CURED A FEW DAYS IS
OFTEN AMPLY SUFFICIENT TO ERADICATE TEE
DISEASE OF YEARS.
CERTIFICATES AXD TESTIMONIALS
Of the most Undoubted Character,
From all parts of the Countiy could be given, sutficient
to till every column in this paper!
AN EXTRACRDINARY CASE,
which conclusively proves that
“Truth is stranger than Fiction.”
CURE OF
RIEUMATISM, BRONCRITIS AXD DYSPEPSIA.
Rev. Dr. Landis, a Clergyman
of New Jersey, of distinguished attainments and exalted
reputation :
Siovey, New Jersey, July 12, 1848,
Dr. A. H. Cusistip—Dear Sir: You wish to kKnow of
me what has been the resuit in my own case, of the appli
cation of THE GALVANIC BELT AND NECKLACE.
My reply is as follows:
For about twenty years I had been suffering from Dys
pepsia. Every year the symptoms became worse, nor
could 1 obtain permanent reliet from any course of medi
cal treatment whatever. About fourleen years since, in
consequence of frequent exposure to the weather in the
discharge of iy pastoral duties, | became subject to a
severe ( hronic Rlneumalilm. which for year after year,
caused me indescribable anguish. Farther: in the winter
of "35 and 46, in consequence of preaching a great deal
in my own and various other churches in this region, [
was attacked by the Bronchitis, which soon became so
severe as to require an immediate suspension of my pas
toral labors. My nervous sysiem was now thoroughly pros
trated, and as my Bronchitis became worse, so also 355'-,
Dyspepsia and Rheumatic atlection—thus evincing that
these lisonlen were counected with each other through
the medium of the Nervous System. In the whole phar
macopeia there seemed to be no remedial agent which
could reach and recuperate my Nervous System ; every
lhins that | had tried for this purpose had completely
failed. At last | was led by my friends to examne your
inventions, and (though with no very sanguine hopes of
their efficiency,) | determined to try the effect of the
application of &xe GALVANIC BELT AND NECKLACE,
with the MAGNETIC FLUID. This was in June, 1846.
I'o MY GREAT ASTONISHMENT, IN TWO Davs My Dyseersia ”
HAD GONE; IN EIGHT DAVS | Was ENABLED TO REsUME
MY PASTORAL LABORS ; YOR HAVE | SINCE OMITTED A SINGLE
SERVICE ON ACCOUNT OF THFE BIOKCHII’I‘; axp my Rmuv-
MATIC AFFECTION HAS ENTIRELY CEASED TO TROUBLE ME.
Such is the wonderful and happy results of the experiment.
i have recommended the Big.T and FLUID to many
who have been likewise suffering from Neuralgic affec
tions. They have tried them, witH marey REsurTs, [
BELIEVE, IN EVERY CASE.
I am, dear sir, very respec'‘ully yours,
ROBENXT W. LANDIS.
DR. CHRISTIE’S
GALVANIC NECKLACE
Ts used for all complaints sflecting the Throat or Head,
such as Bronchitis Inﬂammu;on of the Throat, Nervous
and Sick Headache, Dizziness of the Head, Neuralgia in
the Face, Buzzing or Roaring in the Eers, Deafness, which
is generally Neryous, and that distressed complaint. called
Tic Doloreux.
Palsy and Paralysis.
All physicians acknowledge that these terntie discases
are caused by a deficiency of Nervous Encrey in the
affected limbs. Dw. Cumistie’s Galvanic Articles will
supply this deficient power, and a complete aud entire
cuie is thus effected.
1000 Cases of Palsy and Paralysis
have been reported to Dr. Curistix and bis Agents withia
the last two years, which have been entirely lestored.
Ot Car. AxprEw J. F. Towes of Brooklyn, N. Y., had
not been able to walk a step for near four years, and was
so helpless that he had to be fed. The most celebrated
physicians gave him up. In five days after he commenced
wearing the Garvasic Brry, Neckuack, anxo Bxacerers,
he walked across the room, and in three weeks he had per
fectly recovered his health. Captain Tomes is seventy
years of age.
DR. CHRISTIE’S
GALVANIC BRACELETS
Are found of vast service in cases of Convulsions or Fits,
Spasmodic Complaints, and general Nervous Aftections of
the Head and upper extremities Alsoin Palsy and Paraly
sis, and all diseases caused by & deficiency of power
g;dx\‘errom Energy in the limln or other oigans of the
Y-
FITS AND CONVULSIONS.
These alarming and terrible complaints are always
caused by @ derangement of the Nevees. The Bewrr,
Bracerrrs axp Fruwp will cure nearly every case, no
matter how young or old the patient, or how confirmed
the couphinz Nu-ﬂ_ﬂ:ll and astonishing proofs are in
possession of the proprietor.
oG- u..x hundred Certificates from all perts of the
eount3 ::5 e most extraordinary character can be given,
if b
;;- No trouble or inconvenience attends the use of
pR. CHRISTIE'S GALVANIC ARTICLES, snd
thorL:Gy be vm:z the most feeble and delicate with
perfect ease and ty. In many cases the sensation
attending their use is Aighly pleasant and agreeable. They
oen be sent to any part o(tle country.
Prices:
The Galvanic Belt, Three Dollars,
The Galvanic Necklace, Two Dollars,
The Galvanic Bracelets, One Dollar Each.
The Magnetic Fluid, One Dollar.
The articles are accompanied by full aud i
‘ilgt-bll- h:rhhu with I\llrporticuhu may 1..’1.':
of the authorized Agent.
PARTICULAR CAUTION.
00~ Bewere of Counterfeits and Worthless Imitglions
> For sale in PROVIDENCE, R. I, by the only au
thorized Agent, H. H. BURRINGTON, Druggist,
Nos. 43 and 45 North Main Street, and 125 Hi_h Street.
1> BEWARE OF SPURIOUS IMITATIONS. &1
MEDICINEF,
CANPHOR; Opium ; Cream Tartar; Soda ; Sulphur;
Salts ; Caiomel ; Aloes ; Nyrrh : Manna ; [picac ; Jalap ;
Liquorice ; Magnesia : Picra : Quicksiiver ; Rbubarb ; Een
na ; Saltpetre ; Spts. Nitre ; Aqua Amonnia; Balsam Co
paiva ; Canada mn::.u&; E-& Va':oﬁn : ln.::a.. 3
PParagoric ; , &e. sale at very prices
\¥ § e OLIVER JOMNSON, 13 Exchange st.