- - f
rogrefs of meagre acd deathfcl famine, In
':h?ogbenevolent wark, your focm has taken
the lead ; and even the hall-fa ed inhabi
tants of Great- Britain have caofe of thaokful
at war did not extend its ravages to
mo ghen they would have had no re
fource }‘n starvation, -
- Bot thoogh we have fucceeded in elet
ing to the offick of the firit magiftrate of the
::%on, a man who is r:mukabl: pi: his mild‘i
peacefnl, and philanthropic difpofitios ; an
who has dcclafed it his i':,ucmioo to preferve
peace with ail nations ; our work is nos yet
wholly accomplifhed. To preferve the har
mony of the whole, it is oeceflary there
thould be an agrecement of the parts, How
ever peaceably difpofed our ‘gencnl govern
ment may be, it is neceffary for the tranqoil
ity of the comntsy that the flate governments
thould be adminiftered by men of a like
peaceable difpofition. Indeed, no man, what
ever may be the excellence of his other qual
ifications, thould be entrufted with the con.
tidence of the people, who confiders Waßr as
neccffary or expedient, Nor can I reconcile
it with the pacific principles which form the
(mxcnt and the excellence of your fociety,
that many of youw, at the laft ele€tion, gave
your votes for men who had left no &onc
vantaroed to produce an exterminating war
between us and a powerful foreigni nation.
It muft have been owing to fome deep and
wicked decejtion. You could neyer wils
lingly and knowiogly confent to invelve our
ry in all the miferies of War, merely
E&lfy the withes of a few: ambitious
e
If, on refleQion, you fhould difcover
that you have becn deccived in giving your
votes to the friends of war and confufion ;
if you fhould opprove of the declaration of
Me. Jeerersow, that he woull peeferve
peace willall nations ; T hope you will not
beftow b fuffrages vpon men who are
dmimi is pacific and mild adminiftra
tion, A Friend to Peace, leﬂl},
From the Boston CHroNICLE,
2 #OLD-SOUTH—No. LIL
MISCELLANEQUS,
T'he National Debt of Greae- Britain is
mons on paper ; and bas been a fr
Jource of materials for the Jacobiw M
weffes to deceive the public avith.—B.
viexally confidered, that debt ir mevely vom
nal.—lt is due from the nation to individ.
wals ;—and individuals form the nation,—
Af the intire debt were /aalo at thic mo
ment it wonld mot add a /ﬂl.h‘q ta the
wwealth of the wation ; mor a fenfatior to the
Slock of its geneval bappinfs.—~On the other
band, were it tc be aviped off intively awith
a [ponge, it would not caufe fifty individuals
in the awhbole kingdom 10 rvetvench oue meal a
day in their fubfiftence.—Centinel,
The intelligence of [um. received bere a fort
m‘gb:fam". bas been Z’u{/ﬁéml at the South
avard. 1t is meveribelifi Too TRUE~~ib,
Nowv, 18th,
ALTH()UGH the mof violent acrimo
ny and malevolence are difplayed in
the Tory Gazeéttes againft the Prefident, yet
it muft afford him the highett confolation,
that foch publications do not originate in
Boufton, but are taken principally from a pa
per which is confidered as the immediate
fucceflor of Peter Porcupine, ‘That thereis
a faction lurking in this metropolis, oppofed,
to every republican principle of the Confli
tution, is too apparent to be controverted ;
but even this traiterous combination are ob
liged ‘to keep themfelves concealéd, and in
ftead ' of openly avowing their defigns, are
driven to the ¢ imperious necefficy’” of ufing
foreign means to effe@t their parpofes. It
maft be admitted as an incontrovertible truth,
that the obfervations in thefe Gaaettes are
the expiring ftroggles of an Englith Fa&tion,
and thie republication of them in our papers,
are the paltry ebulitions of & few unpnnci.
pled lﬂ:“tou. who, in the reign of terror,
wantonly pledged their credit on the validity
of their political predi€tions. Finding, how
ever, that the Corfican Hero has bro’t
their ** be®t of Kings” to fue for Peace —that
the continent ot France, ftands on a com
manding eminence over the ifland of Britain
—that citizea Ottois on a level with lord
Hawkefbury—that the Tower guns as, rea
dily difcharge their fonorous exultations oa
the iffue of the War, as when they refound.
ed to the tune of *¢ Rule Britannia, rule the
waves”—that they as readily announce the
arrival of a anc{t miflionary, to fectle the
dcfinitive articles of Peace, as they formerly
did to?enoune; theb)m::m of that vi€tori
ous nation ; and, that t uglith ¢ u-
Ince’ as readiiy took out theEb.:f:‘dP::‘ew
the carriage of a Frenchmen, as ever they
did ' oneof the Royal Family, Whken
they Bnd that fuch events have taken place,
the Anglo Federalifts of mUnhod Staces
have recourfe to fuch fogative obfervations
as & Jefeated eoemy in their retreat are pleaf
¢d to furaith them, '
“T'hefe Britith troops, nﬁdn in Amer.
joa, are arranged in varions di
past is affigned to abufe the Prefident, an
and the Cory?:’hdiun.
other to ealumuiate Mr, Gailatin; a few are
foolith enough to flatser Mr. Gallatio, as if
his integrity and knowledge could be biaffed
by foch fycophancy ; another detachment is
rallicd for the exprefs purpofe of <2nfuring
every removal frum office ; fome to cicate a
jesaloufy- between the Northern and Southern
States ; while others take a more extenfive
ground by pretending to exule at the advan
tages gained by the Britith in the Treaty of
Peace. But not calcolating on uniformity in
fenziment oo this fubject, they unfortunately
counteraét each other in their flatements—
while fome rejoice at the event, others lament
the tidings as ** too true,” Raoflcll rakes
the latter ground, and yet io the fame Cen
tinel procflims the “ glorious news,” that
Britain has gained every benefit by the iffue
of the war ; that her flocks are in hiﬁh efti
mation ; that the Eoglifh ¢ ompium” is more
valuable than the French gacherum ; thar the
Briti(h have ¢¢ not loft a foot of ground 3"
and yet, ftrasge to relate, ‘even in'the midit
of his boaftings on the advantages of Peace,
the Editor clofes his narrative with a mourn
ful figh; Alas ! it is ¢ too trve.”
ff the Englifh have obtained thefe great
advantages by the Peace, why fhould their
friends cxpre!{ an uneafinels at the clofe of
this European controverfy ? Why fhould
they t the iffue of a war, provided the
'f?‘llinm atticles are altopether in their
vor ? If Pitt is fatisfied, if i’ox fays it is a
good tieaty, if the people of England have
become a body of Illuminati, by iiluminating
every capital city in the kingdom, why fhoul
the Centinel become the only mourner ? Ra.
chel weeping for her firft born, could not ex
prefs hed'c"g with more difconfolate dejeftion
than this poor Editor—in the midft of the
univerfal hilarity, we hear his difcordant vo
ciferation, Alas ! it is *“ too troe.” Whilft
thus, *“ refufing to be comforted,’” it was ex
pe€ted fome emblem of grief would have ex
preffcd his condolence; whether a black
Cockade, or a difplay of black crape on the
horns of the roafted Ox in Liberty-Square,
would have been exhibited by him and his
diftrefled affociates, was anxionfly looked for
by thofe who have long lavghed at his ignor
ance and folly,
How muft the Britith Fa&tion in Amer
ica have been mortified, had they feen Ciri
zen Laurifton.drawn in his coach by the
Englith n ‘u§h the ftreet of St.
alfo, is *¢ tOO true.”
pave flared to obferve the
in Briftol welcome the London
ch brought the plcafing intelligence
of peace, and, after taking out the horfes,
drag it amidft the acclamations of thoufards
to the Bufh.tavern ! Alas, this is alfo ** too
true.”’——=How would they have been terrified
to behold the French convalefcents leap from
their hammocks, and dance upon the main
deck of their prifon-thips I<Buat 2bove all,
how great muft have been their mortification
to find, that the *“ immortal’’ Peter Porcu
pine, the champion of the Britith king both
in England and America, bad his Office de
molithed, by the London popalace, for his
refufal to illuminate ! Alas, thefe are all
“¢ 100 truc.”
(Concluded in our mext, )
R RN~ (
For the Ruope-Istanp Rerusricanw,
Mr. Prinvae, %“ '
HE anti-tepublicah party in onr coun- ||
T try, the "’“ it "§5 Popery and
kingcraft, have “beer latmed ever fince the |
republican g * leg Which triumphed in |-
America, fpread themfelves to Europe and
again triomphed in tance. Sometimes at |
foreign influence, then a French invafion,
and now they sre alums for the Church. |
Thefe people, (convinced that the doings of |
our Aflembly, refyfing ro call in the arm of
the civil anthority, in fupport of a religion,
faid to be not of man, was no violation, but |
an at of the bigheft refpect to the Gofpel)
fhun the cafe in queftion, and talk of infidel
it(. 'This is like the Popilh prieft, who,
wifhing 10 infpire his hearers with horror at
the Proteftants, after calling them murderers
and Chrit-killing heretics, pafled on to the |
appearance of a dead body ; and having fixed
the minds of his hearers on this mournfal }
obje&,he declaimed on the melancholy,the for
rowful,the affe@®ing,the diftrefing fight, with
fo much vehemence that the weak part of the
audience were all in tears and ready to rufh
into the fireet and tear inpieces the protefant
inhabitants as the real murderers of Chrift.
The Popith priefis and the ariftocratic writers
in this country, have too much wittghbelieve
one word they write ; but they fometimes
focceed in making the fimple part of the
community believe it. Thefe are the difci
ples and Brethren of the craft{men of Deme
trius who were alarmed at the progrels
innovation of the appofties. Th!:te t
men of whom Ifaiah fpake, faying, ¢ this |
people draw near to me with their mouths
and honor me with their lips, but their hearts
are fas from me.”” ‘Thefe are the people of
wr cw. you make clean your cups
and are the men who wifh to
€ the laboriovs and unlettered part of
M belicve that the commanications
men and h;gcn muft I'cem;lo:cﬁ on
flamped paper, on office days, 2 ce
bours; and that the virtoous man, who'-
‘mind glows with benevolence at the boanty
of his maker, whofe heart is fmitten with
hamility and contrition, at the omnipotence
and vl‘oo of him who has created a'::l ful
taioed this Ball, fhall not pour forth the
pure wmage of the heart, wichout a licence
from the Legiflature of Rhode-Ifland, figned
and fealed, Thefe are the men of wiich
nomber, Newburyport ““StanLey” is one,
who after fecing seligious freedom driven
from Rome by the Pope, from England by
the Bitheps, from Mailachufetts by thefe ve
ry men who fled from Eagland to enjoy it,
‘now wifh to fee it banithed from Rhode-
Hland. 1 believe the prefent inhabitans of
Maflachufects are as tolerant and free from
perfecution as any men; that they lament
the cruelty of their anceftors who inflicted,
as mach as the people of Rhode-Ifland regret
the extravagaot eathufiafm of their predecel
fors, who foffered death. But it feems to
me that an inhabatant of Maffachufetts, 2c
quainted with the ftory of Alary Djyre, and
others who fuffered about that ume, if they
had the fmalleft portion of religion or fenti
ment, would fay, that a people, whofe an
ceftors had advocated religion by fuch hor
rid means, were very unfit to recommead it.
““ By me that bely office were profaned.—
I fits it me with human gove diffained ;
To the pure fhies thefe borrid hands to raife,
Or offer beaven’s great five polluted praije.”
He would fay, I leave to all the world
befide to preach rel gion, but as for me and
my country, we fhould only pratice it. A
people, a country, thus flained with blood,
fhould pafs whole centaries in virtaous for
tow and filence to atone for it.
' To that part of your readers, if there
be any fuch, who think that religion has fuf
fered by Republican or French principles, I
will addrels myfelf by faying, every appear
ance cootradiCts it. Dean Swilt, fays, that
hypocrify is better than open impieiy. For
the ftate of religion in England, I fhall quote
Dr. Salmon, a reputable anthor, who wrote
about feventy years palt: ¢Of the religion
profeflegl fn the Britifn ifles, it may be faid
as of the Coultitution, that it was originally
the beft inftitution in the worid, bat bas beea
fo metamorphofed and deformed, the profel
fors broken into fo many fects and parties,
that bear an implacable hatred to each other,
that the fpirit of chriftianity is in a manner
loft ; vice and protancnefs reign triumphant ;
the facred truths of chiiftianity are queftioned
and difputed : And a man that is not an in
fidel, is fcarce allowed to have common fenfe
among thofe that look uvpon themfelves to
be the polite world and pattern for the reft
of mankind to follow. Religion is the butt
of almoft every fool ; and if he has no other
petence to wit, his ridicoling every thing
that is facred, intitles him to‘ that {lenomi
nation in the opinion of the Beau Monde.”
It muft be conozﬂcd that French jacobinifm
cannot make fuch a religion worfe, But oo
the contrary, the jacobins have driven all
the fafhionable infidels and rogues within the
pale of the Church. They have fuch a de
tefation of the mob, and are, as Butler fays,
¢ §o perverfe and oppofite,
They feem to awerjbip God for fpites”
Our great Hamilton, the light and lamp of
the country, after living, as he fays, in 2dui
tery, what but his fpite and hatred to jaco
bins could have compelled him to confels his
erimes to the world, and turn champion for
religion 2 What but his antipathy and hatged
to republican and popular vernment, Id
‘all government hat his g., Id have
made a devout man and goo ‘gnriﬁiad"'a?
Me. E. R, Potter @ Alas | bat for '*l\.
:hhﬁod man might have e | th
ut fceling any concern for the good of fouls.
‘What is more common than m‘gu of
thefe new made federel good , that
bardly koows the Lord’s prayer, the apoftle’s
creed, or the way to any meeting houfe,
corfing and denouncing the Freach for def
troying all religion. And admitting that
hypocrify is better than open impiety, it
may be fairly concluded, that rel@n is 1o
a moch better ftate than before the time of
jacobinifm. ‘Take the religion of the feds,
gkb is to wath cups and pots, and to make
g prayers, and commit no outward fin on
‘the Sabbath, and the religion of republicans,
which is all that can blefs mankind, and i
will amount to more religion than eve
appeared before, and much of it owing
to the revolution in France.
A Conflant Reader.
December 1, 1801,
A Conflant Reader.
December 1, 1801,
Foreign Intelligence.
erfing Remarks on the PEACE.
LONDON, OA. 7.
THE fair way of judging the Prelimina.
ries of Peace is to confider, firft, what we
propofed to gain by the war; fecond, what
we hvc"hzed by it ; third, what France
propofed to gein by the war ; and fourth,
what fhe has geined by it. i
: INo man, we believe, will deny, thag
Minifters, if their lr«:ba and their decla
rations meant any thing, propofed to over
throw the Rzpublicaa government of France,
and reftore the ancient monarchy—to corh
the ambition of France j—ar leaft to confine
‘her friétly within her ancient iimits—ro ref
cue Holland from her ancien: power—to
prevent her from obraining a preponderat.
ting influence on the continent—rto efablifh
fome counterpoife to her power. If it were
neceflary, it would be eafy 1o prove, thatall
thele objeéls were repeatedly avowed ‘by his’
Majefts’s minißers,
2d. Such were oar objeéls ;h;a they
been accomplifhed 2 You have not deftroyed
the Republic, but econfolidated it. You have
not curbed the a of Fraace, which
has been fgmiﬁedrd, rged by a vaft ac.
cefion of power. You have not confin.
ed her within her ancient limits. You have
not refcued Holland from her grafp, nor
checked her preponderating influence, nor
eftablithed a counterpoife. We have gained
Ceylon from Holland, whom we enterced into %
the war to defend. We have obtained Thine
idad from a power who was our aly at the
commencement of the war, We have alfo
ftipulated that the Cape thall be a free port, '
Will any man fay that foch acquifitions 2t a 0
compenfation for having failed in all thefe
gigantic projets we originally entertained ;
or that a peace in which we confent to aban.
doa all ghofe objects which we call a glorious
one !
3d. When Fm& entered into the
war, {he could hav a of reaiizing fuch
projefts as fhe has realized. She wifhed to
eftablith her revolution and her republican
government, 7 .
~ 4th. What France has gained by the war
we have already amply fated in a former pa=
P‘f.
A Minifterial paper of this day contends
““ that by relinqu:thing many of our conquefis,
we have rendered the duration of peace much
more probable ; that had we retained the
Cape, ilt would have occafioned a heavy ex
peoce without 2ffording any return,” ‘This
may be troe ; botis this a truth shat might
not have been difcovered iong ogo ! Did not
the former minifter who is now id go be
fuch ao admirer of the peace, approve of the
expreflion of one of his colleagues which laid
the greateit ftrefs upoa the poffeffion of the
Cape by Great Britain in foll and complete
fovereignty ? The fame Minifterial paper
adds *¢ that we have left nothing to barter or
higgle about.” In this opinion we endirely
cotncide. We indeed have lefr nothing 1o
higgle about at all.
Befure we difmifs the fubje® we muft
rematk upon one exprefiion in this Minifterial
paper about Egypt—*‘ Our arms” it fays,
¢ have conquered that coantry, and by trea
ty, the French have relinquifhed the poffefiion
of it.”” This was 3 great pofleflion on
pert of France—they were firt difpoﬁ"cﬂcd*
ovr arms of the couniryy and thea l?g."
longer able to retain it, they confent to relina
quifh the pofleffion of it !
But then the minifterialifts fay, was not
peace neceflary ?It certainly was. ¢ This
peace fys the ¢ Times” ¢no wife and can
did flatefman will defend uwpon any other
round than neceflity ;an humble. bug a
gtong and irrefiftible plea,” %
Fhe great, and indeed the only ground
upon which the peace can be defended, is the
ground of neceflity ; the convidtion, that the
continuance of the war would have heen ruin
ous, and that France had fo confolidated hee
conquefts, as to render it impoflible for any
efforts of ours to difpoffefs her of them. Had
the peace been defended on this groand, we
fhould have thou% it unneceffary to have
made any oblervations npon it., = But it is too
much to hear the minifterialifts boaft of it as
fo gloriovs, honorable, and advantageons ;
and demand the unhounded admiration wtbc
country for the negociators of it. v
o IJo one gan deny that France has real
w her 43000 proje€ls and ail her vat
po.a-.-*o» g her ierritorial acquifitiors,
and look atours.” Is Ceylon of as much im
tance as the Nerherlands ?—l]s 'l‘rinixd‘
9 nf confequence with Savoy ?—ls the
eftablilhment of the Cape asa free port a
compenfation for the abfolute dominion ac
quired by France over Italy, We pct outof
our confideration for the prefent, the grand
int fecared by France, of affirming her,
ﬁ)epnblican Government againft all the exer
tions of the coalefced powers, We enter not
‘at prefent into our enormous expenditure of
250 millions—Bat if Ceylon and T'rinidad
‘be fuoch important territorial acquifitions,
and afford us fuch ample cti’q-::ltion; if
they make the peace a glorious one for us,
what muft theterritorial acquifitions of France
make the peace for her ? If Ceylon and
Trinidad do really give us, as is afferted,
indemoity for the paft, and fecority for
the future, then will the people have been
moft grofsly infulted and deccived by the af
fcni:‘m of l.:z":m‘ ifts, ll:: 'i:;am.celnr
to defteoy j ifm and ¢ li ay
ernment; and that the exiftence of foscbl
veroment was ucousn tible with e
E:d profperity of the Civilized ﬂul:‘ P::ll
any one fay, that the war was entsred into
ith any view to the acquifition of Ceylon,
Trinidad, and " the Cape ? No. For when
we entered into the war, it was in alliance
and friendthip with thofe very powen to
which Ceylon, the Cape of Good- Hope, 2nd
Trinidad belonged.
But we ars told that Mr. Pict approves