Xerius of the Enquirer.
yv-Tlie Enquirer la published DAILY (for the city)
-f.JfEMMVi.KKLY (for the country.) For the Daily
I v'r <eren dollars per annum, and at the rate of eight
.'liars if taken f?r a shorter period than one year. Kor
? ?"^frmi-Weckly, five dollar* per annum, and Three
fmsix months, pa .'able In advance, to be paid in
? i:e, <t leaittted t>y mail, post paid; or tfix Dollars
o,t anoiiiB at the end of tie year.
' ah dues to this office may he remitted per mail,
in if.>>d and available Bank notes, at the rink of the Kdi
' ,f,e psftagt of all letters being paid by the inters.?
rU, postage of a tingle letter in scarcely of any account
J, i ,o wiiter. It in the accumulation of postage, in an
i'tiensive business, which operates as a serious tax
I ,!?:use Editor*.)
TERMS Or ADVERTISING.
I\ THE DAILY ENQUIRER?For one square of
?uirea lines, or less, first insertion, fifty cents, and
.very succeeding Insertion twenty-live cent*?i? Insert
?1 once a week, twice a week, or three times a week,
,, ,ir.?rvfn and a halt' cents. .
IN TUB SEMI-WEEKLY?One square of sixteen
liar's, or less, first insertion, 75 cents; for each contlnu
ta.t. 50 cents. . .
Orders from a distance must be accompanied with the
ii?ince pay, or satisfactory references, to Insure execu
' Annua' advertisers are charged fifty dollars for thirty
UniH, and in thai proportion for advertisements of a
? ?filer lencth?except Lottery Vendeis and Auction
Jf>, who are charged one hundred dollais (paper in
' vy^All OUtutries and Marriages from the country,
-ynever the party's baud-writing Is unknown at this
l?f,.e inn*! be authenticated l>> the endorsation of the
Pat master in the neighborhood, or they will in no case
' published. Every measure, that has been taken to
Invent impositions and quizzes, has proved heretofore
tjivsiliug. We must, therefore. Insist, In such a case,
J*,n tfie communication being certified by the name of
jir Postmaster. icritien on the back of the letter.
Virginia Institution,
FOR THE EDUCATION OF THE
DEAI" and dumb and op THE BLIND.
AT STAL'MTO.V, VlkOIMA.
TKE eighth session of this Institution will commence
on tlie first day of September next.
Terms and Cimdiliuns oj Admittance.
1. The Institution will provide for each pupil hoard,
tuning and lodging; (he continual superintendence of
fceiitn, conduct, oianuers and morals; fuel and light*;
Kit-book*,stationery, and other incidental expenses of
i.-f j.hool rooms; for which, including Tuition and
Medical attendance, all pupils who are of ability will
t?charifd per annum, the Dear and Dumb I:t0 dollars,
nd the Blind JOJ dollars, payable half yearly In ad
IIQCC
?. For punctuality In payments, a satisfactory bond
[?((paired
3 rnea:e of Rrtmiaiilon in the Deaf Mute Depart
sen: ubetween ten and twenty-five?In the Blind l>e
iirtuent, males between ten and fourteen, females be
itftiruh: and twelve?or at the discretion of the re
pctivr Principal*.
4 The course of Instro^'lon covers si* years, and no
?ji: will be received for* less term than two years.
5. Ptipili on admission should come provided with
iScient changes of comfoitahlo clothing, with their I
jsi?s marked thereon. |
K Clothing must be renewed by the parents, guar- f
,;mor friends when required?otherwise it will be ,
irni'hed by the Institution, an.I chsrged to them.
7. Pupils whose friends are unable to educate them, I
r educated aud clothed a!?o, if ceces>ary, by the In- j
itution. But tatlsfactoiy evidence must be exhibited J
the Visiters that the parent or guardian Is unable to ,
tfrsy the expenses, or any p rt of the expenses of the ;
gylt. It is expectcd th.it the pupil will he brought ;
tre free nf charge to the Institution, ond only under
irjlisr circumstances will this rule he departed from.
A limited number of Deaf and Dutnh and of Blind i
irwns are supported and educated in the Institution at
;s!ic expense, and it is both the wish and the duty of;
i? Board of Visiters to iaake all sections of the State j
:re alike In this public heneflcenre To this end ad
trtlvments have been repeatedly circulated inviting
>?ii:anons. But while applications from the Siateat
.?ie?re quite numerous, there still remain nin<? Sena
oil Districts, those, namely, of Redford, Spottsyiva
u Fauquier, Isle of Wight, Mecklenburr, Accomac, ;
uem-il, Washington and Alleghany, which have no
u;?pupils at the Institution, and no applications on
t. Uii the loth day of July n*xt, the Board will pro- j
nd c.fiii exiting vacancies in our list of Stale pupils '
on:iie whole number of applications which may then
i ou (lie, and applications iu liie above named districts, j
lie in the meantime, will have the preference over !
otters.
Applications in behalf of the Deaf and Dumb should j
i nade to the Reverend Joseph D. Tyler?in behalf of '
it Blind to Dr J. C. M Meriilal.
NICHOLAS C. KINNEY, Secretary, j
!:?unton, June 1?ctlOthJuiy
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA. I
0 tender education at the University ot \t'ginta I
srailahle 10 meritorious young i. en of 1 mltea (
lus, me visiters have provided that one student
m ml, Senatorial PlMric: of the P!),pcr'^U.-nlvV - 1
tedwithout payment of Irofessots .cesor inn ?
Parses, fines and peaa!iie? excepted.
luienti admitted into the t oivermiy ?n|hi?/?"" )
n,n,!:3ve the privilege of remaining 1*<>>??. ?"??
;iw?r.r-reat proaciency, ibis term may be prolonged |
Ibe Board of Vu.f r,. They are, however ,object
..,.l..ail35iau 01 exclusion, as y
lor punishments; Rtaodin; in these, and In all other
*cls, except expenkc, on the same loolw* as other
r'ub a'view ?till further to reduce the *Y'?n"s'ill i
1 ?tudenw, the Tlslteri have uade pr?\ l-lou, ai liie
rn'r t.f llie Univeislty, that the sun; pud by them
warJ snail not exceed slaty dollars fur the session
he^vtiole expense, independently ot clothea and
ket money, is estimated as follows:
[rd and lodging -
?| and lights?estimated at - - ?? - "
itbooks iii three academic schools?at urage ?*>
$100
.eem of text books in the Medical Departmrot ia
;?bi,iy live dollars, and in the law ?hooU ahoiit
dollars- These books may be piocured at a
>k?cre near the University. m-i u.iii be
fiance exisf in the following districts, and willbe
n!aithe next annual meeting ol the Board of Nisi
?onthe23th June, 1847 : i>,?if,ir,i,
Second District?Monongalia, Pieston. Randolph,
tf-ar, Marion and Taylor (in part.) r-heil
Foarth D ?trlct? Kanawha. Mawii, Jackson. ( atiell,
IVJ(, Uian, Nicholas and Fayette.
DfSib District?Berkeley, Morgan and Hampshire,
i fvrnib Ui-tilct?Rockingham and Pendleton.
Knlb District?Greensville, Brunswick and
Spphcatlona of candidates should be ^com^i.ied jv
tjrr testimonials, and should reach the I
;s? addressed to the Chairman of the l-acult) by the
W. interested should observe Hie follow ins par
The applicant is requested to state his age, which
i?tirfovrrsixteen years, and to des gnate the se%e
Schools of the University I..- may wwl. to en er ob
Kin; that the. enactments require In in.
Krf twenty-one years, to attend atlea-t hr<*of the
i enumerated in the following list, unless,tor
tdrame, the Farully permit him to attend a le s nil -
i I. Ancient l.anuuaues; 2 .Modern Language.; ..
t Hematics; 4 Natural Philosophy; ?>? < llf m'8}^
[>t.a Medica; C Practice of Mcdicine and Oh. tet
iAnatomy, Vuysioloav and Surgery; 8. Moral
tMA&hv! 9. Law.
.border to be admitted, the applicant must ev
L' vVisfactory testimonials: 1st, ?f ,rreP'"a,^
In: c^iracter: 2d,ot" capacity, as well by partial cul
La as by original vigor of mind, to profit by the in
t."..on given at the University ; 3d, if he desire* to
she School of Mathematics, or of Niuur:il I hlo
fty. that he possesses a familiar acquaintance w ith
?if branches of numerical arithmetic, or if he de
r> : . enter the School of Ancient l-augiiages, thai_he
billed to commence the study of the hixherUtin
author.; and 4th that neither he ?<?;"???
y ire in a ?.tuation to Incur the expense oi the edu
on without aid. /-aufi r
lv order of the Viriteis. J- ?'? CABbUl.,
. .. l?cSaw4w Chairman of the Faculiy.
VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE.
riF. Board of Visiters will meet ni Lexington on
MONDAY, I he 28i!i of June, IB-i?. to make ap
yMmen!s ;** Cadets in the Vlruinia Military lnsiilute.
fc'ic?tion-< sliuiild he addressed, eo.-T fAlO, to the - u
pHeDdeat, prior to that day. There will be varan
ViV.r8i?iK Cadeis in the following Senatorial Ui*.
Augu-ta, Monongalia, l?le of VViiht, Halifax,
Pile.Charlotte, rutsylvania, Hampshire, V^ashing
U'aufax, Baih, Kanawha.
V In.titutefurnishes to the State Cadet his boaru,
tuition, fuel, lights, Surgeon, hooks, ?Utlon
imd matirafs. In consideration of which, ne binds
??iftoierve two year? after graduation, as a teach
? He is charged wilh clothiso only, the cost of
i-ts, including pocket money, (the control of which
T'trcised by the lnsiilute,) cannot exceed <9D a year,
'.iy economy, may be reduced lo $4<> or 8^0
i;f:ic?tinns will at the ranietimc be received for ad
a= pay Cadets; the total expense Including
B"1?. being about $250 for 19 months.
^ applications must bn occompantcd by undenbted
^??t:eof fair moral character, and n? pervon is ap
a? a Stale Cadet wboae pecuniary circumstan
Vlit net soch as to require the aid which Is content*
for this clasa of Cadets.
'?"?mications? Age beiween 16 and 2a year*??ml*
^aheicht 4 feetO Inches, end freedom from bodily
i*"? or defotmiiy.
F?m of StHTicr?Three yeara as Slate Cadet?not
PDan two yearn f.u pay C.idett.
'?exercUe^ vf the i.ext RraduHtlon class will take
Jon Monday, Ml, of July, on which occasion the
P?lll be represented a? follows:
Tijiatory addresses by Cadet 11. D. Bmyth, of Wythe.
"?ion by Cadet O. C. Wharton, or Culpeper.
by Cadet D. L. Powell, of Loudoun.
TUliciory Addresses by Cadet J. C- Moncure, of
fj^d.
l'iirtl?t? appropriate to the National Anniversary
Ct,ot.st I:, the reading of the Declaration of Inde
Cadet J. L. folndexter, of Richmond City,
??s Oration by Cadet F. B Jones, of Frederick.
'^?Alaaini Association will n;eet on the Mh day of
_ An address will be delivered by Lewla A. Gar?
?.Ex)., ugraduate.)
FRANCIS H. SMITH, Sup't.
ti9e?c3Utl?.fll?iJeA.wt28Jo
SS1CAL SCHOOL IN ALBEMARLE,
.ap VIRGINIA.
1BE nut sewioa of my Bcliool will begin on the 1st
'today in August next, and end oa the laatFil
Juo?following, with a vacation from theSath
?"o ihe 23th of January.
?For Board and Tuition for the ten montht,
""i If pupils are engaged for leaa than the whole
? w ibe rate of $30 a month for the time they at*
|^t*ncbes taught are the same as heretofore,
lut *1,hlng send their aona to me are reqaeaUd
i*,.i?mBe immediately.
is Charlottesville.
Ilu?^-c2.n FRANKLIN MINOR.
Awarding and commission house.
j.viv h . BI . T r I gr R
B INC taken a jIou|le on the Basin, tender? his ser
m'mio bis friends ar.d the public generally, 111
yaing merchandise, and for the sate of all the
ii,r~c,M ?f produce. . ..
L ".???, in ihe sal? of Tobaceo, will be assisted bj
I, '""".Who. from lonjexperience and acknow
U (u?*y compel#nl to luti^lo lb? in
* Plaaters. Fefe ??etf
THE ENQUIRER.
_ RICHMOND, VA.
Monday Morning, June 38, 1847.
FALSE LOGIC.
11 has struck us with surprise to see several
Whig papers taunting the Democrats of Virgi
nia with the fact that the Woollen Company of
this city has secured the navy contract lor flan
nels. They assume the absuid ground, that the
Democratic party is opposed to the prosperity oi
manufactures, and that the success of the esta
blishments in this city and State is in conflict
with the principles and wishes of the Democratic
party. The examples cited by the Whigs aie
the strongest prools of the cortec'ness of the posi
tions advanced by the Democratic party. The
! Whigs contended that the Taiifl of 1846 would
destioy all manufactures, especially in the
! South?and that nothing could save them but the
' heavy "protection" lurnished by the laiilf of
IP4-2. The Democrats, on the contiary, main
1 tained that the revenue duties under the new Ta*
! ritf would be amply sufficient, in connection
i with the industry, skill and ingenuity of our
countrymen, to develope and encourage manu
factures. The result speaks for itself. Under
' the present system, not only are our old and wtw
establishments progressing favorably, but one of
them is actually furnishing flannels better and
cheaper than the long-established and mammoth
companies of the North. The example citcd,
therefore, instead of causing regret and astonish
ment to the Republican patty of Virginia, is the
strongest vindication of the soundness of their
views in favor ol low duties. But the following
article from the Uuion puis the matter in its true
light, and does justice to the mechanical skill and
industry of Richmond:
I Vmr.ixiA Manufactcbs*.?The contract forsiipply
tnst tl>? i.hvv wtih flannel* Iimr Heon Riven to the \ lnM
! ma Woollen Company, of Richmond. Phmlets of 9e".
how would your eye* open *ut!? astonishment, could
you but look upon this sight?
' [.V.ij l>i; QjuUt and Times.
Why this astonishment! Is it that Virginia is
pushing manufactures? The odious tariff of
1642 is aboli>hed, without, at prcseni, any seri
ous danger oi its resusciiation, and a revenue ta
riff alone is established. Is it that she is aolc to
underbid oiher Slates in flannels? It wouldcease
lo astonish ihe New York editor, if he were to be
acquainted, as we are, wiih the active superin
tendent of ih* Virginia WToollen Company of
Richmond We know him well?Mr. Caleb
Jones a native ol Massachusetts, and regularly
bred to the business in her best woollen rnanu
lactories?a gentleman in his manners, a free
uade man in his principles, who has always been
opposed to a protective tariff; and the flannels
from the establishment witn which he is inti
mately associated, were the r>esi which wt-re ex
hibited at ihe great National Fair of Washing
ton during the last year?admiued to be the best
and cheapest, whilst he hi" self was here, protect
ing against the protective system, and preaching
lip 'he benefi s of free trade. Since seeing (lie
above paragraph, we h;tve been curious enough
to call at the Navy Dei-artcient and ascertain
whether there was reason to suspect any degree
of favoritism in hiscase. We find not the slight
est color of it. The contract was given, as it al
ways is, to the lowest bidder. There were fif
teen bidders, and his bid was the lowest of all.?
Why, then, is astonishment expressed in the
case? Richmond is destined by her facilities?
her immense and inexhaustable water-power, her
coal-mines, her iron, and her labor?to al'ai"
great prosperity in manufactures. And as .hert
is an open field and a clear sky, and no favor,
and the finance iysiem is reduced to the revenue
standard, who will not hail with pleasure her
"triumph in the arts and manulacturesl
The Mississippi Volunteers were received at
Vicksburg with immense enthusiasm. They
were welcomed in a beautiful address by Colonel
Swan of Bra^on, speaker o< ana
thrilling replies made by Cob. Davis and . l
Clung." A splendid barbecoe was provided at
Camp Independence, a beautiful spot three miles
from the city-and at night a grand illuminatiou
took place?the mo?t conspicuous feature c. which
was the "castle" ol Col. T. E. Robins, situated on
a proud eminence. The liberal host furnished a
luxurious collation-and a splendid display ol
fire-work*.
The Tennessee Volunteers met with a cordial
reception at Memphis. They were feasted at a
barbecue on Court Square, where presses were
delivered by B. F. McKiernan and Wyndham
Robertson. Esqs., and a response ,n behalt ol the
volunteers by Lieut. J. L. Pern. The city was
illuminated at night.
These interesting scenes do honor to the nation.
Thev evince the just gratitude oi the m>' for
those who have borne hardships and perilled
their lives in the honorable cause of the country.
CROPS.
The wheal in Shenandoah connty is said lobe
good,to he well filled, and to promise n fine yield.
Within a lew weeks, the prospects of an average
yield in Augus'a and Rockingham have been
greatly enhanced. The quality ol the wheal is
said 10 be decidedly superior lo that of last year's
crop.
The Baltimore Sun, in announcing a fine pros
pect of grain crops, speaks of some hea'is ol
"Polish wheat," grown in Frederick county, Md.,
by Capt. Henry R. Smetzcr, of Middletown Val
! Icy. If the statement be correct, it must be a mo<t
i valuable grain, and might l>eused advantageouv
! ly by the Virginia farmers:
"These heads arc of a p?cnliat lorm, each con- j
taining (.)0 to 120 grains; and it is estimated tint ;
the field from which they were cut will yield from
40 to 45 bushels per acre. It branches and grows
very much like lye, ripening eight or ten days
earlier than other descriptions, yielding a smooth
white grain, and is said to be never affected l>y
either mildew, smut or fly.*'
TUE TRUE SPIRIT.
The following cheering article from the Peters
burg Republican confirms the Impression which
we have always entertained, that Col. Baptist, in
spite of the insidious schemes of the Petersburg
Intelligencer and its allies, would show hitnsell
lo be faithful to his principles and to the success
of his party, at whose hands he has received ho
nor. He has nobly sacrificed his own aspirations
to the will of the Republican party in the district,
and will have the proud satisfaction of knowing
that his meritorious course has placed the defeat
of the Whigs beyond doubt.
We congratulate our friend, the "Major," of
the Petersburg Republican, upon the laurels he is
winning, not only on the stump, but in his cdito
rial sanctum:
Mecklenburg?We are gratified to say to our
friends, that in this sterling Democratic county,
there is every indication that, at the ensuing elec
tion, the party will turn out in its strength, and
give to oor talented and worthy candidate an old
lashioncd, heavy majority. IVIr. Meade is alto
gether acceptable to the Democrats of Mecklen
burg, and they expressed a sincere regret that he
was not able to attend their last court. They are
fully determined, by giving to their candidate an
overwhelming majority, to r??pel the insinuation
that this district is becoming more and more favo
rable to the Whigs, They do not admit the fact,
and intend to disprove it in the most emphatic
manner.
Col. R. H. Baptist made a short address to the
people, in which, after stating tbe causes which
impelled him to become a candidate, and reler
! ing to the circumstances by which hz was then
surrounded, he announced that he was do longer
a candidate, choosing rather to retire from the
canvass than to throw any difliculties in the way
of his party's success. This declaration was ac
ceptable and gratifying newstoall but the Whigs,
who seemed to be much mortified and disap
pointed. We are sore Col. Baptist will never re
gret his honorable and magnanlmons conduct on
this occasion, for, besides the assurance of hav
ing performed his duty, and relieved hia friends
from all embarrassment, he will doubtless receive
additional gratification from the fact, that the
hopes to his political opponents have, by this act,
been entirely blasted.
Col. Boiling, the Whig candidate, was present
[ and addressed the people 8t length. He referred to
> bis own opinion* open tbe politics of tbe day,
and criticized, to a considerable extern, ilic opin
ions and acts of his absent opponent, Mr. Meade.
The editor of this paper, by the request of" many
Democrats present, replied to Col. Boiling.
At the conclusion oi the discussion, the Hon.
W m. O. Goode made a short, but very hand" une
speech, in which he referred to the proceedings
of the late District Convention. His rtmarks
were characterized by a spirit of the greatest
courtesy and liberality towards the Convention,
anil at the conclusion he expressed his cheerful
acquiescence in the action ol that body.
The Southern mail brings us no later news
l'rom the city of Mexico. In the New York Sun
wc find a.letter trom the Mexican metropolis, of
the{.'Msl May, two days later than our !asi ac
counts li slates that the heads of the church, in
i eluding the leading bishops, weie from the begin
; uing opposed to the war?but that a great /car of
| the military power still prevails; that
"Suuia Anna bears I lie cuise ol the Mexican
tia?i<??it will pursue him to his death, tic has
lied too. and betrayed his credulous country cruel
ly. When he arrived here from Pucbla, but a
few days ago?and he came in hot haste?the Ic
1 pero?of the city pelted him with stones, ai d he
I only] escaped from death through the assistance
ol the military arid police to the national palace.
His power is gone?his army broken up?and
henceforth :he friends of peace, the clergy, mer
chants and planters, may save the nation. The
i fortification ol the.city is abandoned. Only the
I rabble were in favor ol such a move, which would
have devoted our beautiful fabrics to ruin." The
, writer says, that "a:- Gitn. Scott approaches?and
i we expect him every moment?a thousand to
? mulls and rumors aie taking place, Fust, Gen.
i Scott is reported dead?then his army dispersed?
! then the victory of some Mexicans somewhere ;
! and when all these rumors end like Santa Anna's
? despatch from Buena Vista, or the Mexican story
I ol the U. S. Whigs and Democrats fighting a
? bloody battle at Washington?pure lies! then the i
rabble howl. All is horrible confusion. The fo-i
teigners and wealthy citizens are dying to the j
interior, carrying off everything valuable. Some!
bury their treasure in the ground and wall?:, to j
keep it from robbers. The city is lirerally strip- i
' ped of all its wealth, goods, money, plate, &c.? !
The stores in all our street* arc closed mote than
half the time. Even now, the Polkas and Puros
are fighting in the streets like 'avage wolves,and
every business is suspended. We cannot survive
long thus. 1 pray God. before Mexico is self
annihilated, Gen. Scon may arrive and give us
succor. Every good man lifts up both hands to
welcome the American army. When that ar
rives, we shall be rid of our tyrants and have
peace. Peace! for which the better Mexicans
pray. We have no government, no mean*1, and
no desire for defence. Our defence is to be rid ot
our own military oppressors Not a cannon will
be pointed lrom ihiscby towards Gen Scott; no! j
lor there are none to point I God ha?:en General ;
Scott to us! Wc look to him now for protection. !
We have read the address he divulged at Vera i
Cruz, and know that our property and religion i
will be respected. Our own Congress has no '
longer a quorum or indueuce," &c., &c.
These views are confirmed by the following '
extract from the private correspondence of the !
Palria, the Spanish paper in New Orleans. We >
find it translated in the Charleston Courier:
Mexico, May 2*2, 1S17.
Dear Friends: Confusion prevails here to such
an extent, that it is impossible to describe it.
When I think of the situation of this country,
my mind is almost distracted, as I believe Is also
the case with every intelligent Mexiran. Mexico
is at present in greater danger than ever. No
body knows what course to pursue, or what others j
should do. Those who bold the reins of what is ;
here called Government, do not know what to j
ao. Santa Anna is at the last gasp, lor though
it is three days since he has resumed the con- '
trol of the Government, he is but poorly sup
ported, and less loved by the people, who not
leng aso idolized him. Rut Santa Anna has!
his ariifices, and he muil have already lorme.l j
his plan of escapc from his difficulties- Poor
Santa Anna, his entrance into his capital has
been as disgraceful h* unexpected. But let us
spenlc of another matter. The preparations to
ODfHllt* \ ? ?
capital are entirely farcical, in rieapuo of -what
tht: papers may say; and should General Rcolt
to-morrow present'hlmself with only a handlnl
ot inon, he would enter with little or no resistance
into the midst of the 'JOO.OPO inhabitants ol thi^
city. I trust to see ihe Fourth of July celebrated
here with as much enthusiasm arid noise (olgaza
ra) as in Philadelphia or New York. Almost all
except the miliiary are in favor of peace, arid
thev have no longer any liar ol expressing that
opinion, as was the ca>-0 a month ago. And the
military show a disposition lor the continuance of
the war not trom patriotism, but raiher from ihe
hope of exercising the disposition tor robbery and
plunder.
The Clergy, tlmt reverend body whn lately ap
peared cisposcii and determined to yield a con
siderable portion of its property indelence ofiheir
country, seemed to have changed their opinion
since rrndivo the last proclamation of (ten. Scrll,
daied at Jalapa on the 11th instant. Seeing thai
the A raericans promised to respect the property ol
the Churches, which they have hitherto done,
"the Jf voted Mexiran Clergy" have thought it bel
ter not to yield their properly lor that purpose,
giving as a reason that il ihey thought differently
before, ii was from the fear of the Yankees tak
ing possession of them immediately, and as they
must necessarily have lost thein, ih'-y preferred
gcncroitslii resigning them lor the public gooJ.?
But now ihai they discover the many guarantees
and safeguards that they possess, they commence
to regain their confidcnce, being persuaded that
ihey would not lose their treasury. These Revd*
Fa I hers deem it most prudent not to open their
chests.
The result of the election for President and
Vice President is very uncertain, but it is gene
rally thought thai Ilerrera will asain occupy the
Presidential chair. It is said that be is in favor
of negotiations for peace with the Yankees, and
llieie is diversity ol opinion on this subject.
In conclusion, 1 expect that in ten or twelve
days wc shall learn the result of the election, and
at the same time it would not be wonderful that
we should have the small American army at the
gates of the capital.
THE PRESIDENT'S JOURNEY.
We regret thai we have noi room for the inter
esting details of the President's trip to the North
ern cities, wherein, thus lar, wc are rejoiced to
see he has received the courtesies ol all parties,
as ihe head ol the nation. The citizens of Maiy
lar.d, Delaware, New Jersey and Pennsylvania,
appear to have turned out in lull force to do honor
to ihe Chief Magistrate ol the Union, thereby
testifying their undiminished regard for our bles
sed institutions, and giving notice to the world
that our Constitution and Union arc still brightly
cherished. At Wilmington, Chester and Phila
delphia, the President's reception was most cheer
ing. As the steamer Geo. Washington in the Df I
aware river was crossing the line which divides
Pennsylvania and Delaware, H. W. Rogers,on
behalf of the latter State, made a happy address
in resigning his guest to the charge ol the Penn
I sylvania committee, who, through JudgeChamp
| neys, the Attorney General of Pennsylvania, wel
I corned the President into theKey-Stone State, in
a highly patriotic address. The President's re
i ply, says the Pennsylvanian, was "warm, ardent
, and stirring. He spoke wiih enthusiasm and |
energy, and his remarks elicited ihe reptaied ap
! plause of his hearers. He spoke of Delaware,
and thanked her citizens for their generous recep
I tion, and referred with great spirit to the revolu
I lionary services of that gallant little Sta'.c. He
returned the greeting of Pennsylvania with all
! his heart, aDd referred to her exertions in behalf
! of the preservation of ihe Union whh much ani
mation. He spoke of himself as the representa
tive and servant ol the sovereign people, andlelt
sensibly that the recepiion he had received was
extended raiher to the office he held, than to him
self. During ibis speech, which was warm and
earnest, ihe President was heartily and repeatedly
cheered."
At ten minutes past three o'clock, his Excel
lency and suile, and (be Philadelphia Committee
of Arrangements landed at the Navy Yard wharf,
Philadelphia, under a national salnte, and met
wiih a glorious reception. The Navy Yard
tops of houses?streets, lanes and alleys, for sev
eral sauares above and below the vard were lin
ed wiih thousands ol the bone ana sinew of our
land, with their wives, sisters and familee.
On arriving at the wharf, the President was
received by Commodore Stewart, Major General
Patterson, Col. Abercrombie, and other distin
guished officers. He was then preceded by a
handsome military escort, conducted to ihe <juir?
| icrs of Commodore Stewart, in the Navy Yard
j where a handsome rollation was spread. Full'
, justice was done to it by thr- guests,
j At half-pr.st four o'clock 1\ M., the splendid
j display of military, under command of Brigadi
I er General Rontrilort, (to whom great creuit is
j due for the handsome manner in which the mi]i
: iary proceedings were conducted,) took up the
! line of procession.
At fifteen minutes past six o'clock, Elis Excel
: ler.cy arrived at the mansion of Vice President
! Dallas, and entered it amid the most deafening
j slioui.s Iroui the assrniiiied multitude, who had
congregated thither in immense numbers.
The route ol the President, from Wilmington,
| and through the streets ol Philadelphia, "was
( marked by tie indications of universal jov and
j hospitality. The shores or the Delaware, aiid the
. streets of the city, were filled with people; and the
! roar of the cannon, the cheers of the citizens, the
. crowded whsrves and srhipping, made the scene
i one of singular animation anil enthusiasm. In
the city and districts the crowd of spectators was
j immense, and v. lien the Picsident reached the
mansion of the Vice President, the throng was
; overwhelming. Mr. Dalian received and wtl
j coined the President, Hi his guest, with warmth
j and cotdi?.]j:y.
; Cheer upon cheer, loud and long, were sent
i fotth, wheih fairly made the welkin ring. Wal
nut street from Eighth to Eleventh street was roui- i
: pletely blot Iced up with spectators, anxious to!
I catch one glimpse of the chief. Alter the cheer- |
j ing had subsided somewhat, Vice PiesMent Da!- j
las appealed at the window with his l.xcellency !
on the left, and addressed tie mighty mass in a
lew patriotic and well-iimcdremaiks, whk u were
received with tremendous cheers.
His Kxcellency then tlmiked them for the verv
happy manner in which tin citiz-ns t>f Pliiladd- I
phia had received him. flis remarks were en- ;
ihusiasticallv received. Vhe tnilitaiy were now ,
formed into line, and mnrheu to their respective !
head quarters, followed bj the dense croud. <
In the evening, his Kxctllency was serenaded {
by the lireiier's AssociatiotandtheiVlaennorchor. j
Several paniotic airs andpieces from the dirim
ent operas, were performid in a truly masterly
manner.
The following sketch ol the beautiful remarks
of the President in fndep-ndence Hall, Phildel
phin, on Thursday, we extract from the Penn
sylvanlan. The t'. S. Gazette, a Whig paper,
alludes in liberal terms to the President's reply, j
which it describes as "trill) eloquent." It says?. j
"We make no attempt to give the language of!
the President, it was appropriate and stirring " i
After leaving the High School, the President '
and his escort visited the I'. S. Mint, and were
con liieied by the i flicets of that establishment i
through the various rooms and workshops. The j
Mint was in full operatic n at the time, affording ;
the President an opportunity of viewing the en
tire process, from the first melting of the bullion
to the last stroke on the sew coin. A *et id '
bronze medals, bearing the Slrcness cf the Prcsi
dent, were also struck In lis presence, on the
press kept for that purpose. Then the President
attended by Vice Pres-den- Dallas, Attorney Ge
neral Cnampneys. Hon.Judfe Kane, Brig/Gen.
Koumiort, Col Tit >mas D. Florence, Recorder j
Lee, Mayor Su jfi, and ihe rity authorities, I
also paid a visit io the Hal. ol Independence, '
at a few minu-es past one c' lock. Long be
fore the arrival of his Excellency, large groups i
of our fellow-citizens, old ant \oung, rich and ?
poor, could be seen wending their way along |
the streets, in the dirccicn of the State j
House. Be/ore his arrival, the vast multitude,
who had now occupied the entire front of the
State EJouse, sent forth chcer upon cheer?loud,
long and enthusiastic. All party feeling was
buried for the time. Having c.itcred the Hall of
Independence, be was welcome to the city cf
nn j'y Love?thrice welcomed to the Sacred
Hall, by Mayor Swift. The Mayor spoke very
feelingly?alluded to the glorious manner in
wnicn ne had been received by the Philadcl
phians. ar.d, on their behalt, tendered hitn the
hospitalities ol the city. He was ever and anon
interrupted by repeateil chrerings?:o which the
President replied as follows
"Mr. Mayor and Gentlemen F.-.r ihe cordial
welcome yoti have given we. or? this my visit to
!.'lro?-'exf-cr.ded li) me i.v'- ot phil;;de'.
phi?, I return you ray mo:t gi'aieiui acsnow
iedgmeiivo.
'1 am happy to have availed myself of this oc
casion to visit the city of Philadelphia and the
State ol Pennsylvania; and that which adds
deeply, in my mind, to ihe interest ot rr.y vi?ii to
yonr city, is the use of this consecrated Hall.
This is the Hall in which sat tif&t venerable body
of nu-n?here sat John Hancock?here sit
Thomas JetTeison?here sat vour own Franklin
and Hush?that venerable, that illustrious body
of men (God bless their memories I) who made
the astounding declaration to the wot Id, that a
nation ol Freemen lived!
"Seventy years have gone >ince that glorious
event?the birth ot our nation!?and when se
venty more years shall have passed away?when
other Presidents shall have enjoyed the honor
which 1 now enjoy, ot being thus warmly wtl
corned by the citizens and municipal government
of this city, I would ask?what human sagacity
can foresee ihe pro.'-periiy ar. 1 grentness of mv
beloved country? May our Constitution ever l-e
held sacred, our Union unbroken and inviolate
its dissolution would lead to anarchy?for in
union consists our strength! To preserve it, we
should be but loo happy to devote even otir lives
"As one of the public functionaries of the Gt
vermnent of that Union?occupying the place I
do, as President of the Republic, yet as a servant
ol the people?I feel, in common, I am sure, with
all ihe functionaries of the Government, the botin
den yet sacred duty of pic>erving wiih nit blemish
our Constitution and Union. I Pel tlot 1 am
within ihe walls of that room in which the vene
rable founders of our Republic?the Signers of the
Declaration of Independence?built up a liberty
?the greatest, the purest, the most elevating that
was ever known to man. 1 am in Independence
Hall?the first time in my lite that I have had
that honor. I feel proud ol my countiy!
' I thank yo?, not only fur your kind and cor
dial welcome, but fur receiving me in the same
Hail in which you received Lafayette?the same
Hall where, in former days, was received and
honored that great and good man?whose statue
I now see beloie me?George Washington, the
Father of his Country! I thank ion, then, not only
for the manner in which you received tnc?but
also for the place."
The speech was frcqucnt'y interrupted by the
most deafening shouts of ?pp!ause from the citi
zens within and without the Ilall.
He now received the congratulations of his fel
low-citizens, entering by the main door, and pass
ing out through the middle window, fronling the
square, which was provided with steps on eilher
side.
The old State House bell struck the hour of
three, and though not one-third of the immense
number of people who had assembled to grasp the
venerable Chicl by the hand had had that honor,
his Excellency, in company with Vice President
Dallas, Hon. John K. Kane, and Attorney Gen
eral Champneys, entered a barouche, with four
splen ied horses attache, and repaired lo the i evi
dence ol the Vice President, amid tremendous
cheering, which was kept up unn'l the carriage
leceded trom the sight o!' iIk mighty gathering.? |
Never did we behold stich a cheering scene, and '
never was so large a body of people who had !
congregated more enthusiastic.
Tiif. Pre-ident's Toca ?Mr. Polk and suite
left Philadelphia for New York on Friday morn
ing, under, nodoubt, mcst gratltjing feelings, as
his stay from first io last in Philadelphia was
marked in the highest degree by those evidences
of es eem and honor ro befitting a patriotic peo
ple to bestow on the chief magistrate of their own
choosing. He departed about 7 o'clock in a spe
cial train, which the politeness of the Camden
and Arnboy railroad company had placed at the
disposal of himself and suite. lie was to be re
ceived at Ambov by the New York commiitee)
v.*ith the usual ceremonies, and would reach New
York about one o'clock on Friday afternoon.
Tho incidents of the President's sojouin In
Philadelphia, during Thursday, were calculated
highly to interest him.
Ai 9 o'clock of lhat day, he was waited on 'jy
the committee of attendance, and visited with
them the Naval Asylum, the Mlnt,Girar'l Col
lege, Fairmount, Laurel Hill, and the Model and
High 8chools. At the Model Schoo' an original
address of welcome was delivered by one of the
scholars, to which the Presiden' responced in ap
propriate ar.d happy terms.
At one o'clock he was introduced to the Mayor
and Councils, at Independence Hall. Mayor
Swift, in a neat address, welcnmcd him to Phila
delphia, and congratulated him that the city au
thorities were enabled to greet him in that hall,
hallowed by so many recollcctions.
The anawerof the President was dignified, elo
quent and forcible. He said it was at all times
a gratifying thing to him, as ihe chief officer of
ihe nation, to meet witjj his fellow citijens, and
mingle with thosr of whom he was hut the per
van,. ]| was doubly gratifying to him thai the
Pn.r cuho'cn [or "''s occasion was one hallowed
n he heaitol every American?the Hall ol In
i PHH^nce. It was the first lime that he had
! ? '' the sacred room, and ihe occa
'' was productive of no ordinary emotion; it
was here that the patriots ol the Revolution laid
he foundation oI our Government. The wisdom
ol heir plans was evidenced by the unparalleled
grouh and increase of the nation. He stood
i 'c",0|1?y,lie?ecuiive officer ol the Govern
ner p,.p " W" Crea!ed by lheir ^"iiu,Je and
! i ^e.WD,y >'ea,s ,"'ll0e. a President
i i f n."ed --lates lnay lc in Ibis Hall, and
| who can estimate how extensively our insiiiu
which'ihp " ^ d,'^uset'> an<l ,he prosperity to
,h?*b i. ? ?'!?n mav then ,iavc lived? He
thariKtU his lellovr-citizensol'Philadelphia lor the
CH>u..esy thus shown him, and i he manner in which
II v. as tendered,
Mayor Swift .hen introduced .he member# ol
^ectan Common Councils individually,
| niter which the Pres.dent was introJucid to the
I citizens generally, and was occupied until three
| o click, shaking the hands, and returning the
i compliments ol the eager throng.
ii 'n '-vR e.Vt>nin" 'ie vi?ited the Commissioners'
? Nk-i. Liberti.;., alter which he attended
a nail by Major General Patterson, at his elegant
mansion. The officers ol the 1st Division P M
were present iu uniform, and the aftair was most i
brilliant.
. ?V'w \orf;t the miliiarv and civic proces- '
mod, which was to escnt him, would traverse j
the whole length of the city?from the bakery to i
Astor place, and back again to the park?the dis- j
tance being over six miles. The ppcession, it
was thought, would be the most splendid one of
the kind ever witnessed there. T^- most beauti
ful portion of the demonstration, however, was
expected to be upon the bay ind the battery?a
perfect tlect covering the former, decked out in all
thegayety of naval and commercial parapherna
lia; on the latter the grand review of the milita
ry hosts was iu lake place.
All ihe New Iv.gland towns appear desirous j
jhat Presidtni Polk should pay them a visit.?
The authorities of [,o\. jl, Mass., and New Ha
ven and flartford, Conn., and Portsmouth, N. H.,
have 1.'Mowed the example ol others in making
suitable arrangements lor giving the President
such :ireception ai becomes his exalted station.
[Correspondence of the Baltimore Sun.
New York, June 25, t; P. M.
The Prrsi,lnit a' A'ew York.?The President
reached heie about oneo'clock, and has met with
a glorious reception. He landed ai Castle Gar
den amid the booming of connon, the cheering of
the thousands assembled, and surrounded by nu
merous s't-umers, yachts, and boats, dressed in
flags and filled with passengers. The battery was
covered with specta.'urs, and Irom almost every
prominent poiut in the city the national flag was
flying.
In Castle Garden he was met by the Mayor
and City Council, and welcomed to the citr.
The President then passed irom the Castle to
the Banety, and seated in an open barouc ie, re
viewed the immense bodv of military ihat were
formed in line lor escort duty. This ceremony
over, the procession move>t, and atier passing
through a large portb n ol the city, arrived at the
Asior House at about 4 o'cio< k, where a finite
jou was find by the military as he enterrd hU
quarters. Tne route passed over by the escoit,
which was comp'eiely lined with peojde, was six
miles long. I; was the greatest turn out wc have
seen for many years.
The following brief but comprehensive article j
in the Union brushes away manv errors which '
we see floating through the Whig Journals:
TnE Finances.?The "Intelligencer" ol yes'er- '
da\ calls our attention, in the b.'Kiy of a cuninu
nicatit n, to ihe suggestion, of its correspondent,
(whom it styles a 'sagacious merchant,") that,
Irom the al eged drain of specie to Mexno lor ,
the war, and the heavy expected import under 1
the tariff of lSlfi ar.d the tall <.l bre.t UufTs, we j
may expect a derangement of our finances next
year. We will answer these Whig predictions
oi evils in their order.
As (?> the drain of 'P'C.i.CiV
ler, and il.c merits jncp-n.se. The duties r.ocruod
under ihe Mexican tariff, js ? military couiiibu
lion, already exceed hail a million in specie,and
must rapidly augment under the pledge recently
given, that, in the event of peace, the imports
? hall be exempt Irom any new duly or confisca
tion. These duties, if the war conrinues, will
furnish all the specie required to be icmiued t>
Mexico; and we shall, in time, have large exports j
to the United Stairs of specie Irom Mexico, in
payment for our imports. Thcseexporisarealrca
dy greater to Mexico, by actual returns, than io al
most any other country except Great Britain; and
as we occupy the interior, will rapidly augment.
A trade with Mexico (silver being her great sta
ple export)brings nearly the whole return in spe
cie. Phis specie thus brough'. to us Irom Mexi
co, even under her high, and, in many cases, p:o
hibitory tarifl, reached s uue years ago nearly
nine millions of dollars in a year. Under the pre
sent vety reduced duties, with all the prohibitum
ol imports abolished, as alsn the removal cf the
onerous export duty on spec io, we should not be
suipriced to *cc our imports of specie fiom Mex
ico, in return for our exports, teach twelve mil
lions per annum. The drain, then, will be from
Mexico to ihe United States.
As to the tarifl ol IR-lti, and the (all ol bread
sinlls: Our principal export is cotion; and the
same vessel which brings ihe news of a tail of
breadstuff* fiom ihe hghesi point, informs us ol a
ri~e in cotton more than equivalent to the fall in
bread.siulis. Breadtiitfis, however, still bring a
good price, and the foreign market for them is es
tablished, and especially lor Indian corn; and
there cannot be a doubt, large as imports of goods
may be :hat our exports, including ihe earnings
by freight, will inoit than equal ihe imports.
"While we, with drums and fifes, and banners,
are receiving the author of ihis war, (the Presi- j
dent) Kentucky, we see, is bringing its victims 1
heme. 'J he Louisville Press publishes ihe pro
gramme, adopted, by ihe proper committee for !
the luneral procession and ceremonies, on the oc- j
easion of the arrival of the belies ol Col. Clay,
Col. McKec, Capi. Willis, Adj. Vaughn, Lieut.
Powell, and others, who fell in the battle of Hue- j
na Vista.
"Some victims of this war, it cannot but be re- j
membered, have been drawn in hearses, in lune
ral parade, io the sound of muffled drum, up ihe
very Broadway, where the triumphant President!
is to pass.
"The reminiscences, and ihe contrast powerfully j
impress every thinking mind, when ihe author |
of all these sacrifices io their country, comes
among us."
The above language of the New York Express j
published on the eve of the President's arrival in j
New^ York is worthy of the infamous sentiments |
avowed by the same paper, lhat the war wilh ;
Mexico is a war for the subjugation of the Caifi- :
o!ic religion in Mexico by "protes'ant invaders** j
and that the Catholics of this country are bound j
to oppose the war, to save their religion ! The j
people of the U.Sia'es are too intelligent and libe- 1
ral-minded, not :o treat with indignant contcmpt '
such false and miserable attempts at party-capi
tal.
The largest and best clip." of wool grown in
Ohio and Brooke Counties, Va., this year, have )
br^en disposed of to the Lowell ngemc fit 45, 50, j
55,5C and GO cents. These prices show ihe su
' perioriiy of our wool and the great value ol the
i sheep that i; has been the pride of our larraers to
: raise.?[ Wkctling Times.
j Do they also show ihe "ruin" of the manulac
j turers and wool-growers under the tariff of 1*316,
| so co: fidentiy predicted by the Wheeling Times
| and ihe Whig press?
For the Enf iircr
i I: has long since caused astonishment to rov
self and oihers, why the Whigs have been so bit.
| lerly opposed to the preeent war. We, as Ame
ricans, neither ask nor desire aoy thing but what
we are rally and justly entitled to, and thai we are
determined to possess and de.'end, however orpo
i sed by apart of ihe Whig party. We cannot
censure the entire paity, without exception. We
hope, as many of the Wnigs are looking to the
j heroes of the baulefield for (heir next President,
: that they will reconsider their former opposi ion
: to the war and its participants. Let us, as Re
publicans, defend those principles endeared to us
; by a Washington and Jackson. Those heroes had
a united support al home, but we have the dis
approbation ol a part of the Whigs io meet, and
the arms of our foes abroad to contend wish.
\V hatScyihian host, what Parthian arrows, what
j Indian treasures could have resisted them alii
Bnt we will be successful al last.
We are rapidly winning victory aber victory,
which are heralded throughout our land with ra
pidity; prosperity give* an appearance of high
jentimept5 even to those ol so oppofj'.e spirit; but
I 'Pnrid m^nani
>, ? ill l*stdisplay ,? by the uipnitv uf Ns be
I navior in affliction* and adversity:
il??ttrl?u" Ms ,br"1 art> beware I
Wn1|i!.r",e('"Vrrn,,";nt lhv Kfncih impair;
Ami lviif'r**'" s'la" ^ 'hy certain doom,
* strong tide ghalt whelm ibee in U.? torub.
June I2( 1S17. UPPER CULPEPPER.
.. ^ For the Enquirer.
Messrs. Editors; Permit ni-e to pen a hasty
paragraph lor one '-'Pauper," who, with the won
derful skill and Ingenuity of a McCauley has
analysed ami reviewed in sober prose a little
p.ece oI pleasantry on the Feno-laws, intend
n't..'? '\ar{ 10 leaze "Another,"?cot in ie
P;i to ti,s arguments?they are unanswera
ble, because of their non-existence; but in
order jo show that his ungenerous and unbecom
ing allusions to my motives and profession are
totally erroneous, lat-nie time concluded not
jo trouble myself with any notice ct the piece
out, from said Pauper's iuuendoes, suspicion
might casually rest on some one who has teen a i
roost worthy candidate for political promotion !
and who woufit-?urn the I
and mancEi?erings to win the public vuic<Tas j
soon as iour humble servant. With the true '
merc^'al cast imputed to the Americans by Ed.
Btih"e. he seems to snutf the approach o! wring
vi every doubtful word, and charges me 1
with an attempt to enlist the sympathies
i n behalf of the poor, and array the needy against
the rich; with goose ijdill potency dealing his
grape, as though lie had an abundance on hand.
I-h'u. vu misen.;n,! "Pisstrangc, indeed, his lyux- j
eyed scrutiny could not perceive the vein ot le
vity pervading my hurried communication? it
did not appear to be tin undercurrent too deep to
be fathomed by such smart tellow- ar. said P.
He may rongratulaie himselt on being the only
living biped who would have supposed me to be
in earnest in my citation of old form?, Feudal
tenures. &<?., Slut Solus! I deprecate the idea
of excitingone portion ot'the community against
another. I detest the abominable habit of un
principled hogs furtively procuring snacks I'ioiu
other than their ownet's field.
Were I to take him fur my model orcxemplar,
1 might with equal propriety or justice, perhaps,
imagine him, with spaniel sycophancy, paying
court to the swells ot Goochland?bending the
suppliant hinges o! the knee, in picking up a
handkerchief or toothpick, that social thiift may
follow (awning?or tiying to give himself a lub
ber lilr by constituting himselt the especial friend
and adviser ol the tich ?or I mip,ht charge him
with being Dives instead ot Pauper. But^ he i.i
not my Magnus Apollo?my Lord Chesterfield? i
and I am not sj illiberal as to imagine any sti h
thing._ Ilii inkling alit my proles-ion and mo- j
trees, characteristic ol his lamentable lack ol '
perspicacity. What an egregious ptep'isterosity j
(their-s a 1 bu.iter'?pronounce ii audibly at the j
peril of your nether mandible,) to divulge to the ;
many distant readers vl the Enquirer that I, the ;
retiring, quiet F.- a pi tin tarmer?am a briefless j
lawyer, who, to amuse himself, espoused the in- j
teresis of the po r mar,; and that I, who never j
participate in political meetings, because in the !
exercise ot my own discic'.ion and the rights ap
pertaining to Iieetnen, 1 happened to dilfet i
with him, said Pauper, was trying to catch
voles. Gemini!? what a cachinnatory shout j
greeted this wmy and startling development .My ,
advice to this argua-evcj P. is., when he goes a !
guessing aaain, to yield to " ^atuu's sweet re- j
storer, balmy sleep," and perchanc* with the!
morning's sun, cool reflection may ct mc
But I must diMtii-s him to the grateful con
templation ot his superior, nis superlative saga
city, with he remaik, in all deterence made,
ih"Ugh rash it m iy be, that I have the presump
tion to presume that what he can say in behalt of
the cause which he has taken under the bioad
sejis ot his tal* nts, can be met by his liicnd
Powhatan, June, 1357. F.
For the Enquirer.
1 most respectfully ask nom in your columns,
Messrs. Ed tors, tor the following remarks in le
P*y 10 Roane's last letter; and with due deierence ,
to your own opinion, 1 venture to claim the orivl
quirei, as i did suT contmthce"'ic,"P?'J'!.lhe Fn- J
??lrthat Roane should have two chances to tt.y j
one. And to my gipsey antagonist I say, your !
letter shows how much your vanity has been j
wounded by the sharp criticism of Bczzy. 1 j
will nowshow how contradictory you are in your
statemt nts. Fiist, however, permit me to say,
your mind seems to develope itso.f from the inten
sities of a fire mist, which urges you to great ex
tremes, and with increasing velocity?both cen
tripetal and centrifugal?but it all ends in me
teoric display. You have discharged at Ei v.r.y a
whole quiver full of arrows, in the true Parthian
mode, and you have forgotten a remarkable fea
ture ia your first letter, or you would not n;>w at
tempt to give it a lace so innocent. In that letter
you challenge a retort from Bozzy, and avow
yoursell careless as to the consequences. Now
you say you did not write for lame nor malice.
Your two letters taken together, both -how that
you wrote lor that kind of fame which is bounded
by the horizon ol a little min.l, covetous ol the i
applause of a small clique of political enemies,
who delight in nothing mote than sneering at
Bt.zzy, when the occasion oilers. Your two let
ters display also a degree of contradiction, which
Is fatal to them as witnesses in support of your
avowid purpose of writing only to save our com
mon friend from the injury Bozzy was doing. In
your first It tier, you say Bozzy's epistles are in
comprehensible; and yet you charge him with
"attemptingto writedown other"," in his elicit to
write up his friend. In your las' letter, you say
"no man, woman or child, has ever been able to
solve those riddles, your epistles"; and vol,in the
?ame letter, you say you wrote to save our com
mon fri? nd Irom the injury Bozzy wa? doing
him. Now, if all you have sai l of the difiicul
ly of undemanding Bozzy be true, then there was
no necessity lor your celebrated tilting experi
ment at Bozzy, Which also made i'sappearance in
the Enquirer the day before the election, when it
could answer no purpose other than a hostile de
monHirttion against the author of Bozzy.
Jirt?omprehensible riddle* might bi safely left to
themselves, a4 they could do nci her good nor
evil. It is strange, however, ihnt yon should ar
raign Bozzy for injuring our common liiend,
when the same thing was said of you. "Ftibnta
tir tc nirm/'.tr," as the satyrist says, (excuse my
learning.) But know you were charged wiih
want ol discretion, and with having lost our com
mon friend many votes by yourGipsey intermed
dling. Now, what is sauce lor the goose is sauce
for the gan ler, and you must share the responsi
bility. Voir evidently meant to demolish Bczzy
by your last letter, and great would be your fame
in the narrow circle of malignity, if you could
achieve the deed. But why d > yon say he "is
learned and great in little things, very little
things," when you are that very little thing which
formed the groundwork ol Bozzy's learned com
mentary on Roane? Why, aho, have you con
fined your reply to the poor effort of perverting
whatever part of Bi zzv's criticism might seem
capable of being twisted"? Even his snakeship
has not escaped your "keen op ics"?but tiuth
forms the essence of all criticism. Every thing
said, unle?s allied to truth, is worthless. Now et
us see if Bozzy cannot run a paral cl between j
yoursell and his snakeship. The Democratic
party, or Old Hunkers, have evidently been se- i
verely bitten in Virginia this Spring by some j
sort of venomous snnke, and, I take it, wu Uion% j
to Iht sunc spews?not a moral snake, but an im? I
moral and political snake?the same that hissed \
so loudly in our late Congressional I) strict Con- '
vemion?the low: that charged a majority ol the !
Democratic party in the Legislature last Winter,
in a letter to senator Braxton, publishtd in the
Enquirer, wrh some sort of cnbal and intngveon the
subject o' the Senatorial election, and an inten
tion to w/i'p Mr. Braxton into the traces?the
same snake ihat lay low in the grass when the
authcr of Bozzy came forward to sustain the
frecd -m of ihe press against the assaults of an
other huge snake of l>ke venomous kind. I put
these snake?hip?, not as hypo'K'.li'.al, but as real
Pylhovs. You are free to place me either among
the retired or banbhed politicians, as it may suit
your tancy; but I defy yr.u tohani'h me from the
confidence o( the Democrats ot King William
county, or to wrest from me the priceless jewel of
moral character, by wielding against me he tus
ty weapons or the lalse insinuations of enemies I
had foiled long before you patched up an alliance
with them. But why were you *o hard on your
own dearest friends 1 Some ot them stand in the
ranks of the banished, and unwillingly banished,
and have in vain striven to be recalled?which
they cannot say of the author of Bozzy. Near
thitty years have passed since he was banished,
and during all ibat time he has solicited no recall
from his imputed exile, but has delighted in do
ing yeoman service in the cause of Democracy
no mere party Democracy, bnt that sublime spi
rit of Demociacy that aims at the social ad
vancement and happinessofthe people. Butthe au
thor of Bozzy does not wish to lessen the standing
ol any of 'he pers ns alluded to; nor is it the incli
nition of his mind to regard the defeats of candi
dates as derating from their worth or respecta
bility. The author of Bczzy may claim to have
gs good groQsd (or fijj tc the intrigues of
i politicians ns you and others had for charging ca
bal and intrigue on that large portion of the De
mocratic party in the Virginia Legislative which
contended it was the right of the majority to se
lect the candidate lor the U. S. Senate. You live
iii a glass house, and throwing f ines only dis
plays your tolly You stem desi.ous of sigaal
j*'n?vour defence ot the respt'ctable mer. among
Air. Tomlin'ssupporters, but >ou do not care to
deicnd the other tou. The distinction you make
is you I own, ami has en swtul s-quintins?it
squints at arUtocracy, and, lor aught we know,
may leave the respectable class in a minority, V
and, at ail events, enough ot the uther soit lor ca
bal and intrigue. The greatest i t alltheGreek
hi>toria:is, in his reflections on s< tr.e ot the char- \
alters which played a disiingoished pari in oveuts \
he recoids, has said, in reiejence to the pari one
<>: them took between his own and a rival Siate,
'? Something must be wrong tc.itn Alctbiadcs turns
Sp.i>tan"?and the same I say 01 you, tor you
seem to court both panic.* But no not imagine,
because Bozzy displayed an earnest advocacy for
his friend liili, he is one to wage ruthless war
asaio.il 1 on.lit). Many of Doxy's personal
Iriends Voted tor Tomliti?and |or,?
Hii ?> uv?tic?i Him Maiiiuet ti n'Dv ijoizv nnsbigu
respect; and, alter all, ihe author of Horry may
be found readier than yoursdt to acquiesce in the
will of the people, and ihe field tor the exercise of
your tribumtian polity aid arts may be narrow
ed orenti eiv closed. Yours,
June 13, Its-H. BOZZY.
[We did cioic the lists to this controversy,
thinking that each champion had made the same
number ot tilts at one another?but, upon reflec
tion, we believe that ' Roane" had the first word,
and, therefore, his antagonist has a ri^Iit to con
clude in reply. We presume that the subject is
now exhausted?at all events, the duty we owe
our readers forces us to announce that the con
troversy must cease, with the present No.?Unq.]
OHNERAL TAYt.OR.?A New Orlrjn<pap?rgtUet
that there is a -drone probability Oneral Taylor wilt
return to ihe United Suites on leave of absence for a
month. We respectfully siifi'jeyt ili.it the President de
lay In* visit t? Xciv York till tie can be accompsnled by
Iheotil General, and that ttiey should niter the city at
the same time, but at different |?.:n>'s Tbete would be
r.f< it a itlorinus opportunity f'<r the illustration of the
philosophical principle of Hie attraction ot )? .lies.
We will imagine Mr. President P.iik landlni! nt tha
HaUery, with furioussnlv ailillt iy, with loud beat
in g >if vexed drum*, and ''the vile ?.}iieaKiue ei" ih?
wry litiecked fife"?troops deploy mi', colors flying, anJ
counties thousands e\e;ci*liig potent Iiiiicm
In the inld.it of ail tins tuuii|ttitcu<< display. In the In
tensest excitement of the o.-?-.t-1m;, let n whisper pet
vide the crow d, that a tc pet t;ib!e | lain old ni in, v lilt
still a somewhat mtlitiry air, on ? "white horse," ? aa
Hlowly rnlinc down the upper end of Broadway. In a
moment the whole crowd, infancy, iria tiliood, toiterlnc
ace, will have disappeared, like Hie phaniaMnacorla oi
a vision.
'J'tie s-cene then chances, snd we seethe maddened
ctowd rusl.InK as compact nod ieaolles? aa waves of
the la-.hed ocean up the narrow avenue of Broadway.
The house tops are covered, ilie window* ate titled,
and belfries of churches, however tsinote. dense w ith
anxious multiliides
Thecareorof thai "while horse," which no enemy
could rcsut on the buttle field, ts s'opped by l?te imper
vious inas' of throiizttit; fileni.- Pome rite the bridla.
some the stirrups, some c'a-p ? Itc very ke.i ??!" ot the o d
man. ft Is silence nit Not ? solitary 19 heard.
All ase too much sxcites t<> ?kticc'l?:c svr> a
WHISPER.
'flits lb, 'ti4 true, but farcy's ?kc'el:?bu' let the op
portunity present itself. ninl s<f how rea it; will o'erdo
the cold imagination 1 f the scene.
The above lr. m ihe X. Y Tribune is c<>ri'd in
tu!l in Wednesday's "epublican. It i? proper,
therefore, that we should alh w ihe .N Y G'obriu
catty out the scene a liulo latther Tltc lirfitor
wields the pencil ot Fancy u i h grca eflt c.:
We will suppose it.e Pie?ideni and Gen Tay
lor Ooth stand, ng side by side on a rostittm in
front ot the City, Elali, wi;h the vas tm.i u. ihe
Park and the adjoit ing -tteet.- crowded to a jam
with "infancy, m >nh..< J, t< tiering a.r "ar.i! ?mil
ins beaut.. Over ihe h-ad ot tt:;* Pie^i cut is
displayed a b ilitant iran-paiency, hoi. ing f-mh
in large and glowing iei cis ti. iid|..? ir?g invito:
"It it as bn(a my tinalti^ablv j>v.-ps . sufe tho
commencement of hosiiliiies by Mexic?.
deelarati not 'hecxi-siep,^ country ir/rsim
to vrnv/;<>?? >?: ? . ... Z i'.s tnr-. ??
c.Vni :uOib mv tied, ?? 'I/1',... ,,<1'iiu'i/tt Ip an
nonnrcoupnuce,"?Poik'i Mcwgdo Co>.srtU, Ftb.
11547
On ihe rsght of ?he Prt'si'len' s .'.n U he hero of
th- iMexicsn 15at It?-, he brave an ' gallant 'I iv
v a Overhisheatl, inb!?2iiigc&pi :i o. 'he trans
parency displays as a motto:
"Between my Government ard a foreign na
tion, I never ask a question. MY GOVERN
MENT is always right."
Now let ih* President, with old "R ugh and
Ready," an 1 the emhusiastic spectators torn their
eyes towards a tail newspaper buiidin.', on ihe
corner of Nassau and Spruce streets, and behold
at the windows0! ihe sai! boi .hnt; in laige trans
parencies, lit up wl ti li^iits 1 f livid bine ihe tol
lowing sentiments.
'?Bin the whole wnr!! kniws bci'er than all this
?knows that it is Mexico that ho: ban inb'ed and
impi sed upon, and thai t en rt: ple are thc r. b
D?.is. She has sent no adventvrers (with a
pointing at old "RouMi and Ready"] to get up a
rebellion on our soil: ire iai'c on h<r? "
(.V. V. Tribune.
"That we cannot help u-elins ?oir.e 'sym
57V pathy' with tho?e, wln cver an 1 wherever ihey
rv maybe, who are engage,! in ihe defence of
O* their counity from paniiinn and their homes
from devastation by ihe invadirj; armies of
315" n stronger power, is possit.lv true "
f.V Y Tr bur.t.
"We do nm fear to !>e called Miiicns, it there
by out hands ran be Kept c!e.v ot innn i r.t bl< <hI."
( V. Y Ti tbune.
"War violates l,e fundamental principles of
Christianity, and yet men pmlessin? to b'gnv
erned by its sac red requirements, tvoi irjure at
the victories achieved in iiii? AGGRIvSSIVK
GOD-DEFYING WAR."?.\Vw (O.)
Star, copi-.d into the .Wuionat Infil iu'n i-r.
f^T " Y?u must i>iJ.I your army tint' y..,? tnus'
unkss 1/.1M urn ictliing to /?? thnuglit o tiJ.Ut?an
inva ler of your nei^hb >rs?you mu>? recall that
army! Rit>ace your sups .'?and it^ your Presi
dent asks of nif men and monev to prosecute ihe
wat .Kith Gut's itsstsl'incc and try own poor fa
culties, h* shall h 1V1: neither mrn nnr rr nicy to p u
sccutc any sueh j>mpose.' ?[ T rti ( 'orinn
"Your United States army in Mexico, wede'y
an archangel to prove the contnry, i?- .1 band of
slaves, murdering to extend slavery. ? ? ?
Were it the last words th? C'tronolypr should ever
utter, and is editor, wi h hi> wife ard little ones,
were to sutler from it the magnanimous retribu
tion ot Christian warfare, as did the women and
children ot Vera Cruz, it should brand POLK,
Scott, TAYLOR,and all their subordinate butch
ers, as less fit to live in ihis green and tl iwerv
world than any wretch that ever swung out ot it
on hemp.
"If there is in the Uni'ed States a h*?'i worshy
of American liberty, its impulse i? TO JOIN
TUE MEXICANS, and hurl (town on the base,
shvi-h, mercenary invaders, who, born in a Re
public, go to play over the accursed games of ihe
llts-ians, on the tops of ihes? Mexican volcanoes.
It would be a sad and woful j -y, tiu- a joy, never
theless, to hear that the ho rtes un ter ^cott and
TAYLOR - evebt >i*.v tr them, uf.he swept
ISTO THE NEXT WoBLD. What hUSitlfS llH^HH
invading army is this]"?[limy Ch/unotype,
JJrston the yoke-fellow of the. Tribune.
What, reader, do you think would be the feel
intjsot "lieold war-worn veteran, at ^ucti displays
a* these ] Wnat would b* the action, ihinlr ve
ot that enthusiasiic mtiliiiur'?? 1 Think ye that
theh 1 ow-heaned mockery with which the extract
at the head ot this article is fil e>:?think ye that
such heartl"s? and luisi-m" tawine mouf divert
the mind of the old hero irom ccn^tnp'.'tut'j; the
picture wiih orer de esta'icn atid aversitin??
Think ye it would be posssibie tor that vas' mul
titude to be restrained tr >nt kindling ' an'ther fire"
like onto dial which last W'ir ter was seen light
i ing up the "evening stiades." from a figu e which
j hungdanglinz mid-air from the branci es ol an
ever memorable tree in front if ihe office of on?
: paper call the TnbuniJ
1 The history of the past is a piet'v -ur- augury
i of what wc.uld le 'he dtnoueijient t f the sccte
I which the Tribune has forced us to draw.
1 Colonel Haskell ha- arrived at NVhville,
1 Tennessee and promises a reply to G-ueral Pil?
, low's publication nr de ?nre.
Twelve hundred and tit v-seven passengers ar?
rived at New York on Thursday from foiei^u
countries.
i DEATHS.
Died, onTues*av, ihe 2'2 instant, at Willis
! Grs.ve. Orange County, WitLtiM Msbrj-, son
' ot Philip B. and E. T. A. Jor.cs; ag'O about 5
! months.
j llicd, at F.lsntne, Powhatan countv. Va . on the 3'th
i May. ELIZABETH, d .ught. rot VII. on P. Aik.n-on.?
I In this nSlitittif bereavement, may he' heart-strlcKen
| parents be reconciled to the wiy*o! Providence?for
1 Hu holy will declares thii 0!! iMa^s ar? \a
! wisdom, mercy aod lov?.
jieiigiouj H?ral4r?qut?wi to copy