Wc arc n» vehement admirers of the Mmm- <»f Colr
r«Cje—hut the lottowing ha* at lea-t one rccoiiiitiondati
«u ,n out eje.«—it t« ru tv—being trutii a - mail volume of
poetry rvcehlty pnMi-he J.
TIIK I’.UN.i OF Sl.F.FP.
E f c on my tun) u>> limb* I lay.
It I.Uih It’ll been my Use to pi ay
W IthrsovIng tips or heutb u knees;
Vat Mindly, bv slow slegrets,
>l> sp.rjt I to lahe ctufapon’,
In humble Ti u*t mine eye lids close.
With reverential resignation,
fyo wislicoiieeivetl. no thought express'd I
Otdv a rCnrc-pf supplication,
A sen«e o’er all my soul imptesl,
Th.it I iitn weak,yet not tltlhlist,
Suite m me, run id me, even where
Eternal Strength and wisdom air.
Fat yt-sbi-night I pruy’dnloud
In anguish and in agony,
lli-tilllinii lioui the tlcndish crowd
Of jhajn* and thoughts that toriui d ute ;
A Im.d light, a ti .uiipliiu- throng,
8cb»e oi inloietable wrong.
/ndwhmn 1 scorn’d, tbprconlv 'ttotig I
lii.rst ot revenge the power le-s will,
St.ll halli.U and yet burning still !
. Desire with loathing strai c»-l. mis’d
On wililot nutefal objects li'e-d.
Tanuistirk passion* ! inad’nnij l rawl!
Add shuttle and teiror over all I
Deed* to he kid wbi’ h were not hiil.
Which nil confused I could not ku< w ,
V, i c.lier l - dVi’d. or 1 did ;
* l or all setiii'd guilt, remorse or woe,
My own oi outlets -lill the same
1 ife - ill: v fear ; soul-sti .iu. shame!
S > tv.o night - passed : the night,’* dismay
Sntldrn’il anil stuun’il the coinm; day,
bleep, the w ibc blessing, seemed to me
Di-ti tnppi’s wi.ist calamity.
The third Might, u I cn un own loud scream
Had waked me rr'-nn Uie dctidish ilieain.
Ocr.oiin ui .' MiiVeiuigsstiangeami wild,
1 v. oia* 1 li:d li en a child :
And havin*- ti n.« h tears «<t,‘dned,
Fly i iigui.’li touiioider mood,
bjlib , uuishinriit', I said, w: re due
To ug lore's deep iesr s ain’d with sin ^
for aye cu euri csiiug anew
Th’ unt: thonr.iMc hell within
lie horror of their deeds to view,
lo know and loathe, yet wi*li and do I
kadi griefs willi such men wi-Jl ggiee,
l'-nt when fore, wherefore tall on me ?
T'o (« beloved i- all I need.
Ami ivli.ii.i i I... . I i..... :...i.i
Dr. /Tiiiihineila. at Padua, has published at' essay ' On
*re reasons why people use the right hat'd in pieteri :tcc
to tlie left.’ He will not allow ctjstou) or i'telina1 ion t<> lie
the cause : but affirms, that the left arm canto t oe in vi
olent tt continued motion, without causing pain in the left
stde. because thole is ihe seal of the heart and ofllir at tr
rial system. Nature herself, thciefore, com pels man to
make use of the t ight hand.
Knrrinatlon.—T>r. Seo*t has vaccinated t .1,000 person*
ott the coast ot t'oroniundct. aud the operation liad com
plete success with all the patients. Ihe negroes atone
present some anomalies which are attributed to the con
stitution of their skin. It has been neerssat* with them
to repeat vaccination Uve times.
An cTegant Medal has been struck and presented hv
Mr. Mrst, the vccerah'ePrcsi'ieut of the Koval Academy
to tiic Dim tots ot the British lusiitiitlon, who .subscribed
to pur; haye Msrclebiatcd picture ot Christ in the Tern
flc, tor their gallery.
rr./ thg Fht or* of tin .Jilt I can tile .Illicit hi r.]
Having read m yonr paper of yesterday itiuruiug, an ar
«'.le concerning the smgulat property of the Onion Join-,
ib destroying the power of tlir magnetic needle, permit
Bio m mention another ; which is, if you rub the inside
end ot the bane! <>i a fowliug.-pierc, loaded with powder
aau Iron *hot,by tiring wub it you’ll tniss the atm, which
must lie owing to Ute pow er of the onion juice t»u iron a*
well as on tnunei. I doaln whether it would pro.
dnee the same ctTcct on lead shut. L. 1’.
British pi.l'vdkti inthf f.a9t.
[Tram the Potion Cnrtlncl.]
ns have been favored with a lileof Culcii'ta pr.nrrs to
the la»t of Muy. ' 1
1 In- British war-raised forces had been disbanded; all
/ the nj.p-.Mt on made by the native powers appeared to
tie eiiec toady Seduced ; and tranquality universally r> >to
The papers contain numerous appointments made for
the permanent government of Batavia. Ill - drat division
ot the Itooty obtained when ibis Hutch Colony was captu
rtul, had been dollar* ci,^* Admiral st«»U'oid\s >baro untoi'ti
tea to upwards of IOJ.OOO dolls.; and he had hut two
third* ot one eighth.
In a Calcutta paper of May 29th, we lint! advertised fir
sale," by order of government,” a jewel called ” the Mer
maid Pearl," lately ttansmitted hi Bengal from Java, and
S'ated lobe of enormous sue and value. It is about one
tu'-n and live-eighths in length, aud three and a half in
« rtutitference ; ami its sbape resembling the liiiinuii iio.
t'», v, ith the right hand raised above the head in the art of
tombing the hair. By the addition of gold and enamel,
the lortn of a Mermaid has been obtained. The tail is e\!
quisitelv united to the hotly, of a most beautiful green ;
we waist ornamented with a rich girtlle, studded vtiihlj
ruble*, l liejbcad-uperhly ornamented with ruliie.s ,v etia
met work. I he whole said to he a lit ornament for the
regalia ot a Monarch.
I hri.it intering Jnrnfalem.—Col. Henry Sargent has
nca.ly completed hi* large painting upon the subject of
rbe entranceol Christ into Jei osaletn, inountcd oil an ass
, tnuodad’’ spreading tl.eir garments, and slrowinj
branches m the way. 'Ihe eoliitio-ilioiiund :irrnn»ei.icnr
oi t.il* |ni (urc, nv think, will do gyait credit to the arti-t
- -tbe grouping of tip; numerous tigores, the Itv.rtnoitv of
«o lot'ring i he hold expression of hit red among the Jew
and the humble adoration of the Chnstiaiis, are executed
xvith equal felic.lv and judgment, t he canvass is ofexaet
•' ,l"' same size as that of *« the laintinij of the fun /a
'tiers." which was exhibited during the last year ; and tve
rope Colonel Sargent will.lie aide to favor the public
**> aftorumg them an equal giatiliratiou.
[Heston Intelligencer.
fFrom the Morgantown (l it.) S/crtatar. 1
Thi- Murg uitowti, Va. is a greater place. than people at
a distance generally suppose ; just to give the proceed
I’tg- of otie day will convince thetu. on Monday la-t the
citt/ens ol this plare attended to the eleetion of liinsctou,
Itunangiitbi farmers’Co. oj Virginia, a ..ting
ol the 11ii—ties 01 tlie .itau* tiir, and an examination ol
the students, a meeting of Hie Trustee* of the Town -i
"icetiug .if the Tru-tces ofUsg Circulating 1,it,rani, ami
cap the whole, we had 1‘tayer meetings at night, wher.
uiiristians of ali denomination. worshipped mg< tin-r.
We have in this village the Monongalia farmers3 Co.
o/ I irgiaitt, the Monongalia .ieaitemy, the Morgantonn
t imitating t.ihrary, and la-t, though jmt least, ’Jo J/,i.
neat a ha Spectator.
Who tan now » y that Morgantown Is not a great
place f
Thr nirbrg Bell.—The Hiving Bell ^improperly to ter
rc*» Jj n6'V in ti^t* at Plymouth, n of a rtTiausiiltit fnri.i »
t out eight feet in length, ilucc fee. in breadth, and live
Ret six lu<-he»deep, Within art two seat-; the whole ,.i
cast iron, eight iuelies thiek, w eigliitig four t« u-. \ i
withstanding rltisexrrcnte weight, it is, when in the
Scr, extremely manageable. ,t vessel called the It. solnt,
has been lilted to carry the Bell, which i- placed abaft ill,
tier a strong ciatic, to which it is attached by at Irani .!
great strength.-Two duvids rit’t out froiu th.
stern ol' the resolute, on which, when the machim is
weighed by the crane, it is placed prcvioii- tothe inimersi
on. I he .tiver. Mr. fisher. i« a remarkably intrepid rnaii
r .It frequently employed in England and Ire
laud on these sub-marine excursions, ha« -evcral times
been four hours under wider, and ha* often been placed ut
dangerous situation*, the Bull sometime* nearly capsizing
mrd tilling with water, Ace. lie has been arrorripMiiied ill
hi* descents ill I'lyniotith Sound by volunteers, who have
d‘ •n ibeil the sensations experienced on the riniitctsioi. of
the Bell) a* similar to that felt on snditchlv dipping the
Irrati tituli rwater. With biiror two, blood ha- started
ftoni tli>- .., and all experienced reti-idituhle heat
while helow There are twelve glass illuminatious in the
roof of tlie Bril, O) that ever) riling is seel, a- d stirteilv
Felow a- above, Air i- bueed into t»i** machine through a
t1- >e attach, d to if,one per-on almvc being eon-tantlv cm
ployr.l in pumping ; the damaged ai/ escape- nintor the
heil, at: I is seen rhshing to the --nriaec of the water in glo
hiile-. A slight l'Celrte.,r ocriirreillo the tuheoii f|;Jjr..
day se'initeht, liv some stifrhr* in it getting loos,, p
w hu p C'»e Water lose as t-igh as the knee* Of the advi-utu
»ers ; they , however, did n* t give the signal of teiallhv
•trikiiig with a hammer on rite machine, but we»e hoi*fei|
uplH thow above, who had pererrlvrd that mmti.ing nn
ISSSI-..I had occurred, On Friday sr’nnight the Hemline
l. . *i nedt'i i atwab r. Oh Saturday -c'mhglit, having re.
-tuned her station, the rri rhihe wra* lowered and an -in
„as got up which had been lost, and which an
r . id tiie anchorage. Fait the Hiving Bell i. shortly to be
ernphwrd in lltutmaze, on one of tlce siMpcmtou* tin
eertakiugs, which rhafactci i/e the prr-rnt age. and mark
H.e progress ol improvement. The pre-cut jetn beails in
I’l.ipocih yard ate |datforim> resting on vast pile* driven
Irit ithesgahy a nwielnneexactly resembling the guilh.
tin. m him thoogh mneh higher) these, to high water
mark are dt led with inti'.,*, to give them as mur h inde*true
tilnldv !-« possible ; and the wltole |* sirnnglv eormr.Ted
b horizontal (•feces. Alongside these Jetties or wharves
tbe Him of war be fr»v the purpose of repair, ike. ft is
no * inroiiiemn'atodi t,, remove finsiicressiun') the te'rie*
—- o drive new piles without tiling nails, and with the IS
aistanre oftlie Hell to rut rdf every pile three feet or more
«nd»r low watermark, on them pile* so em off an ii i
tnense nm«« atinwontv will be laid, and the wharves will
»>t* orrif* m»|nl lmf| t> oimUMio.
Liberty. He knetv (but tiie spirit of
unst-i uicmicul, uud he did not choose to cm- I
ploy his subjects in uny mode that could pat i
them in the way ot' catching the disorder. When i
Dr. Franklin applied to linn to lend his assis- (
t wice to America,l'ray, Doe tor,(says the vet- <
cran.) wlial is the object they iiiean to utlniu r” 1
“ Liberty, sire;(replied the philosopher,) liber
ty—tliat i.oedom which is the birth-right of i
iiian.” ’I he King, altera short pause, made this
.memorable answer:—u 1 was Imrn a Frince ; I
am become a King; and I w ill not use the jkjw
er l pusse>.*, toihe i*m of my trade. I was
born to command - and the people are born to
obey.”
f I 'rrint (hr kWrni liailij Adri rtiscr, Oct. 1*0.1
Jimn SKI.KIRK .X Till! NOK'lll W I.M COMPANY.
The Montreal papers are tilled with the. con
troversy between tin* Karl of Selkirk and the
partner-of the Nortli-W est Company. It may
be interesting to the reader in this country ti>
know something of so important nquurrcl,* the
scene of which is on our own borders. Me.
therefor e, undertake to give a brief account of
the dispute, as we eolleet it I ruin the papers, ,x
otherinformation iiiour reach.
In the year ITS), a company was formed sole
ly fm the purpose of carrying on the fur trade,
culled the \^yth-lhst (’<>nijHtttyt which com
pany ever since its establishment has carried
on an extensive trade, annually sending their
agents through an immense tract of country,
t«. the western extremity of the continent. Tiie
In ad-quartets of the company vert; at Ft. Wil
liain. on Thunder Hay, near the North-western
extremity of Lake Superior, and a principal
settlement at Ited Hiver,near the North west
ern angle ot' the l uited States’ territories,
and three thousand miles Westward from Mon
tieal, where most of the partners of the compa
ny reside.
The Hudson Huy Company, which had carri
ed on its ti.tiling operations from \ ork Facto
ry, on Hudson’s Hay, had frequently had colli
sions with this Company. This latter company
is of much longer standing, and holds existence
inui- r a charter from the King of Great Bri
tain, granted about two hundred years ago. -
.•'In, cumpuny claims a territorial jurisdiction,
and a monopoly of the ti.ide overall immense
tract of country, in wlu< h the North-west com
panies Imc their principal settlements.
The Karl of Selkirk, who was a proprietor
of this company, has recently obtained from
the company,a giant of more than Hli.ouo
sq u >re miles of laud, including the country in
winch the Red Hiver settlement is situated.—
Over thiv country hi., i.ord-hip appointed Mr.
Robert Semple governor-general. Mr. Sem
ple arrived at \ ork Factory from Kngland,
August :i8,181'., but did not enter upon his go
vernment until M inter. A party, however, of
the ilmlsoii-lhiy people, took possession of the
Red River settlement in the Autumn. During
the M inter,it is complained by one party, timt
the 1 Imlson-H.ix coninunv were iiiakinrr eon
stunt depredations upon tlie settlements and
property of the other company, ami by the oth
er pin ty,t!iat the North-West company were
making j«i • • pa rat ion- torn hostile invasion upon
their rivals.
No ev ent ofa very important nature is rela
ted until the 9tli of June, when the following
bloody transaction took place, it is so various
ly related, that w e quote an account of it from
each of the opposing parties. The tirst is from
a tnciidof the North-West company:
“ Mr.fcieniple, still believing the ball at Ills
foot threatened destruction to all around ; uu I
m eeting batteries at the scat of government,
meant to obstruct the navigation, and there by
to prevent the North-Vi cst eoinpauy lVom pass
ing with their ; roperty. The remaining Nortli
W est proprietor in that quarter,(hiding the dif
ficulties which lie had to surmount, directed
hiscourse with his charge by another route. As
thepassnge by tins route would be attended
witfi loss of timeaud much trouble, and would
cause much disappointment to the parties con
cerned, who might he waiting at the usual de
pot, and in want, the proprietor thought pru
dent to dispatch two cart-loads of provisions in
the usual direction, but through the plains, with
an escort or guard of fifty men, who had posi
tive instructions to pass on quietly, and as far
behind the settlement as possible, in hopes of
gaining the place appointed unmolested. The
advance of the eseort, consisting of twenty or
twenty-two men, passed on with their charge
without being perceived, and meeting a man
from tlie settlement, they brought him with
them part of the way to prevent discovery.—
the rear-guard, who were riding carelessly a
longthc edge of the morass, about four miles
distant from the settlement, were observed by
tliegovcriioiNgcuer.il from iiis room,'which was
man upper story. M lie governor in a tone of
surprise exclaimed there tlicv arc, and immedi
ate ly sallied forth at the lieiul of thirty of his
best warriors, completely armed with muskets,
li\i d buyout ts, \c. The. eseort seeing this par
ty pressing forward add gaininggrouud, halted
and dispatched one of the parly, a Canadian
who -poke English, to inquire into the object
of the pursuit.
“ The Canadian with the best intentions ad
vanced, and was surprised when Mr. Semple
seized the bridle of his horse, and laid hold of
himself ns a prisoner. The Canadian desired
M r. Semple to desist, otlieru ise he would not
answer tor the safety of his party. Mr. Semple 1
feeling indignant,called out to Iiis men to blow
out his brains! His iiienexelainied—Good God, ,
Sir!- if vve tire, we are till dead! Eire, you cow
ards! enjoined he—this is no time for" reflerti- t
on. At thissevcrc reprimand, a shot was fired |
at the. Canadian,hut missed liii**—meantime, an :
Indian seeing the struggle, leu the escort, wa- ,
vinghis hand, and calling out uioud l'eace! j
Peace! do uolquarrel, friends! Mistaking per- ,
liaj s Ins intentions, a shot was fired at him— ,
ed tin-tire with eSJect then a volley was pour- ,
ed upon the cst ort, which killed one and v.onn- >
ded another ot the itarty. Tile escort no Jon- ,
gcr in douht of the hostile views of governor
Semple, pri pared for action, took their die- '
tance,and formed themselves into an extensive {
line, describing a half-moon -and opened a
dread fni tire, which[in an instant brought Mr. ,
Semple and most of the party to the ground. A ,
re-inforcement from the settlement appeared
in the rear with a pie e of urdinaiiee, which
hue t pruning several * hues. T he escort resist- ,
ml tliis party also, and drove it with prccipitu- (
tion hack into the settlement. Thus having r
cleared the field, the escort joined tilt ir friends,
wholly this time had come to their assistance,
and re'tiii nrd to their destination aecoinpanied !
by two of Mr. Semple’s party, whose lives were
saved l>y tin- intrepidity of two Canadians who
happened to be present. Such is a short hill 1
true account of the battle fought four miles he- ,
low the settlement of Red River on the llhii of .
June last, between two parties of ennui num
bers. Mr. Semple and twenty-one or his party *
were killed- ami there were several wounded. *
Tin: escort had one killed and one wounded.” .
( 'Vo he continued.)
[From (hr Aational Intelligencer.]
F.xlract ,of a Letter from Dr. S. /,. Mitchell, 1
“ October 22, iSRj. ,
“ Mr. 7«Inelureand M. T,e Sueur, the former *
an eminent tieolugist, and the latter tile, disfiti *
giiished Zoologist, passed the last Saturday
Veningat my house. Huron E’EscalHer, Count *
Reginald, and some other gentlemen of the I
like character, were prcseul. At lily leipiesl, '
M. I.c .Sueur produced, tor Hie information of
the company, ids drawings of the fishes of the *
Fredoniun waters. They were executed in a a
styleeijiml to W ilson’s birds, and were beauti
ful when viewed only us specimens of/mr arts ; 1
hut, w hen considered as delineations of rent ol>- <
jeeti, many of them unknown to the persons J
present, and forty, or more, species new to the J
philosophical world, <t»u can easily conceive t
wlmt a treat we had. It was. indeed,a grand
ami admirable report on the Ichthyology of l
these parts of Nortn- America. Among them •
was a Herring of Eric, and its continuous '
Hood* ; and a (ml, inhabiting the same place ; J
atiording decisive proof of tile correctness of I
my doctrine—that the great taken of Sorlh-Ame
lica irere originally Jilted with sail-tenter, anil that *
th, y Imre yurt id with it, and been reidenluhed with 1
fresh witter, in the course of time; while .soon of the *
fishes hare gradually accomnnnttited thenmlrrs to J
their new element,awl remain tiring iritnes.as to i
the former stale of things. The descendants of
Oecanic unimals are, at this day, inhabitants <
of the lrpper latkcs. tain well assurt d, and i
l>\ a very competent w ituess, Alexund i Mu '
comb, ICm|. that a t'nnud or murine tortoise has
he<-n repeatedly seen, ami by himself, among o- 1
fliers, at Detroit. M. ltufinesquo had inform <
ed me some weeks duo, that on his excursion to ‘
lakes < leorge and Champlain, and to Saratoga, I <
.uni their nettfhlMuiringstreams, lie had (flscov- <
eretl about twenty sorts of fishes. He cslcii- s
my inemoi '
uwphlcal Transactions, l had described eighty !
vliioh the Europeans had never heard of; so 1
hat the scientific world will have a present of
•ite hu ltd nit and forty kinds offish toaild to their |
tock. I have uvcii engaged,(luring iny spare |
murs, in examining the foss'l geology uromut N. !
fork. It is curious, heydjuilany expectation I ;
rad entertained when I undertook tnc. task. I
un satisfied, that I have be ton* me the remains ;
>f fourteen animals raised from tie* strata under j
mould, that are no longer inhabitants cf this'
world ; their whole races having become ex
t not. Why it has pleased the Ciik.vtok thus I
to destroy the livings which ho once formed, I i
know not! Hut, the nctunl specimens now be- I
fore me prow the existence, in former daxs, a
round New-York, of an amphibious reptile, re
sembling the famous fossil Crocodile of Maes
tro lit ; of an i'lrphant peculiar to America ; of
a IHtiwicrros din crept from that of the trausat
ladtic countries; of the great Mudoden ; of mi
extinct Oyster; of a Spimhts ; of a Mathefmrc—
li.hutilr- -'I'erebratula \c. Xc.not note found a
/tre, and known only by their disinterred re
mains: besides the bones of laud-animals, relies
of fishes, and various other meaiorableobjectsof
this class. Thus, you see, \vc. arc taking inde
pendent grmiml,uud doing business in earn
est/'
L \ NC ASTR1 AN SCHOOIekum r n.
Paris, September 1.
Parisian Schools.—V/c must bail with delight
the project of un establishment which tends to
teach quickh girls to se.v, embroider, mark
linen Arc.—This establishment is to be held at
the ancient College des (iiassins, Rue des A
mandiers, near St. Genevieve. They have a
dopted the Lancatiian method. It has been
long known in France, hut wemadc little iixo of
it; it is in the highest perfection in F.ngland,
from whence we have inn manner, received it
again. In the Rue St. .lean de lteauvais,at the
ancient college des Sisrue, a school for hoys
is formed on the same plan, which docs won
ders. They learn to read, to write, to count;
one master teaches at the same time about '.Kw
boys, by means of little tutors or monitors cho
sen among the cleverest of the buys. It is cer
tainly a sight worth seeing, and everyone who
arrii os from the country' ought to put in his mo
inoniudnm honk this institution ux cue of the
sights i ioxf worthy his attention. Nothing is
more ingenious than the meclianisin of this me
thod. *1 Ik school for girls is not less curiuns.
Imagine a large room, well aired in the slim
mer, well wanned in th** winter, tMfc) girls are
placed ten upon a SVn in, ranged by the side of
each otiicr. Thereare twenty henehes, two
ot which form a class, and in the classes they
learn to sew. gather,hem,draw threads, am) to
do open work, make but ton-holes, sew on but
tons, tocross-Stieh. knit, plait and mark 4 Where
IS the luisliamlthat is r.ot nu-liuntid that his
wife should know how to sew on buttons to
mark, and to stich hi* frill r We often lose our
linen,and why r—ilecaiisc it is riot marked: lit
Micmuu ui uur M'llUOlS, Silt UM* voilllff pro.
pb‘ know how to mark from A to X upon the
shirtsaiul cravats. l*.y this means yon have no
tear of losing any thing,or at least t lie fear will
not l>e so great, and every thing is in order. As
there me monitors for th- boy.-, there ore mo
ult resses for Hit: girls. The half-mistresses are
taken l rum the classes.
The school-mistress gives a lesson, which the
monitresses repeat and make the others learn
Emulation is established, it is who shall woik
the quickest and the best. The work is inspec
ted instantaneously. Every girl bas an apron
winch she leaves at the school, and w hich is
left to the care of the school-mlrtrcss. These
aprons are placed upon the scat of each giri
betore the work is distributed, and they art're
placed when the work is done. Every scholar
is tarnished with a thimble, a needle, thread,
and every thing that is necessary for work*
t here is a pair of scissars among threa girls,
these scissors are hung to the table or desk's be
fore the pupils by a string, long enough that all
three can use them. The girls learn to read
and write by the same method of instruction.
In three or six months thev arc able to as
sist their parents, or, if thev are old r
nougli, to enter into the management of the
house.
In London there are schools of this kind
which have done much good. But in this res
speet Paris will soon vie with ail the towns of
firefit Britain. In the school for hoys all the
orders are verbally given; but in tlic school
tor girls they arc given by signs, the general
iiioveineutsare executedat the sound ofa little
bell, and if they speak it is in a w hisper. The
school des Grassins isnot vet commenced but
it will not he delayed. It will be a benefit foi*
the parish, for tin- town, and for France, as one
foundation will be followed bv others. Tims
ivliat is good is not lost to us. 'The elemental v
instruction will spread iK-lf. These methods
■r. renewed from the Greeks, t lie Egyptians,
be Indians, the. Arabians. Every bint comes
from the East, and you may see iii the King’s
ibmry.iu the description of Egypt, in the third
aook, a note that may satisfy amateurs.
[ From I hr Albany Daily Advertiser.1
NARRATIVE OF RGUERT ADAMS.
f Concluded.]
After their discharge from imprisonment at
i oniiimioo, the Moors took \dams and the
I’ortugnc se hoy, and five camels, and denart
*<1. After travelling by the side of Jhe ris er in
in easterlydirectionfor about ten dhvs,at their
lommqii rale of about it; or IS miles a* day,thev
oaded their camels with water, and struck off
n a northerly direction for 12 or l:> days, at the
time pace u.s before. They saw blit few trees —
he. ground \< as covered with a kind of grass that
eseiithled muss,. The nnlv
rere negroes,jcnrrvingsalt to’L'onihuctoo. At
lie end ofeighteen days, they arrived at a largo
illage called Tntleny, inhabited by Moors and
xegroes, in which were four well s of excellent
rater.—Here were beds of salt, which both
doors and Negroes came from all quar'ers t0
utrehase. These beds wero about 30 yards in
irciiniference, and.» orb feet deep.
After staying here fourteen days to refresh
liemselves. they loaded their camels with wa
rrand provisions,and setout to cross the de
art in a north-westerly direction. They were
ine and twenty-days crossing it, dti vng all
ihich time they did not meet a lunrnn being.
)n this journey, tliev MiO'eri d much for the
*ant of watt r and provisions. I ivcoftlic Moors
n;r«* left exhanstedon the sands,three of whom
lied immediately, and the other* yvere suppos
tl tolmvc perished, as they were never heard of
fterw ards.
They then came toa tented village called \ lee
)ideiia,l>elongiinrto theMom *,v here they had
locks of sheep ami goat.*. Adams and the i'or
ngnese w < re employ cd for n< arly a year t o take
are of these animals, exposed t<» a scorching
•in, and in a state of ulmor i absolute n tkrilm st
-ami these dreadful sufferings were greatly
ggravaled by a despair of ever beimf released
rom their intolerable slavery. As the docks
rcre large, they occasionally killed a kid, for
heir ow n u*c. and to pr<*v lit suspicion.buried
he ashes of tin* (ire with which thev dressed it.
idams at length remonstrated yvitli his master,
iho frankly told him beintended to keep th< ni.
pon this. Adnnisdoterinined to neglect his Inl
ine sa ; the. foxes killed several young kid* ; «V
idams wan severely beaten lor his inattention
a liis duty. He was not, however, of a temper
o yield to cruelty.and he persisted iti his course
util they deliberated whether they should imt
iin to dcadi, or sell him to another tribe, when
e was called upon by bis master’s wife to lake
camel and fetch wntet from a distant well.
Adams availed himself of this opportunity,
ltd made bis escape towards \t •■ilinton. On
lie following morning, he came insight of a
line* where there were forty or fifty tents; and
n-t at I hat moment, his old ma ter and the ow n
r of the camel on which he had tied, inode I Imir
ippear.iiice. A dams Imd just time to reach the
dace ill view when hi* master overtook, and
faiinc I him a* a slave. Adams de clared he
vniild sohner die than return ; and in the end.
he chief of me tribe where he was, purchased
nm.
^Adams’snevrmaster hail two wives —one old
>mi tin- other young. 'I’he old one employed
dm to take care of her goats. After a while,
onie difficulty arose between the women con
•eriiilig him. and he wa* again sold to a Moor
sli trader, by the name of I’oerick.
1’oericl. immediately carried Adam* to a place
•ailed Villa de Boiirbach, distant from .Ved
ioon about nine days jotimey. There Bocriek
vas informed byafriend that the British fcou
:tl at Mogadorc, was in the habit of sending to
Vednoon to purchase Christian .Slaves, and he
,tl( red io take ,vo.ell him on Hoeric.k’s account.
Accordingly,they act out, and p«*. ed Villa A
Irialla. on *tlicir way, and at Jme end of nine
lays sto-)pcd at a place called Alcala Moruas
ali AU. . , ,
taken, und carried hack.; but, soon afterwards,
the aarty who had him iu charge *et out for
WeiliWhi, and arrived there at the end of five
day*. Wednoon in u small townofaliont id hou
ses and some tents—better cultivated than any
place Adams had seen ; the produce, corn and !
tobacco, with various kinds of fruit- There, to I
his great satisfaction, he met the mate of the
Charles, and Davison uud Williams, two of the I
crew. They had been at Wednoon about 12
months, and were slaves to the Governor’s son*.
Adams was soon disposed of to a new master,
by th ■ name of Itclcassam Ahdallufi. ti,r twcu
t\ dollars, payable in blankets,gun-powder and
date*.
I It* also found a* Wednoon a Frenchman,who
informed him he had been w recked about 12
yeurs before on the coast, uud that all tin crew
except himself had been redeemed. He also
mentioned the loss of the Montezuma of Liver
pool, about four years before, and that the cap
tain! Harrison; and nearly all the crew had been
murdered. This Frenchman had turned Mu
honiedaii, was married,- and gained his living
by making gun-powder.
“ Among the slaves at "Wednoon was a woman
who came from a place called Kanno, a long
way to the southward of the Dcsart; this wo
man said she had seen in her own country some
white men, ns white us meaning the
wall;) they were in a large boat, with two high
sticks iu it, having cloth upon them, and they
rowed the bout differently from the custom of
the negroes, w ho use paddies ; and she made
the motion of rowing with oars, so as to leave
no doubt that she bail seen a vessel fitted ia the
Ktiroprau fashion, and manned by white peo
ple."
At this place, Adams was employ ed in agri
cultural labors, which were very severe. T he
Moorish sabbath, being also a market day, was
a day of rest to the slaves. Adams’ master’s
son, one sabbath, ordered him to plough. lie,
refused, on the pica that it was a holiday, upon
which the young man struck him on the head
with a cutlass, and in return Adams knocked
him down with his fist. L'pou this, the Moors
surrounded Adams, heat him so severely as to
knock out two of hi» teeth, and very nearly to
kill him. The sou. of the sheik saved his life by
deciding that they had no right to make him
w ork on a market day. The father and mother
of the young ruau whom he had struck, insisted
on Adams’s kissing their son’s feet and hands,
which lie refused to do, as lie ailed god it to be
“ contrary to bis religion.” lie was then put
in irons, and treated so severely for several
Weeks, that he wasted away to a skcliton, and
w as finally released merely because his master
feared he should by his death lose him alto
gether.
Soon after this, the mate grew sick, and una
ble to work, upon which lie was beaten, and on
his reiuousUaring against the cruelty, lie was
stabbed by the sheik’s son, und died in afew
minutes. About the same time, the fortitude
of Davison and \\ illiams gave way to the brutal
treatment they received from the Moors, ami
thev renounced their rnbp-ion :m.l nlii'niiwil
their liberty by submitting to the lites of the
Mahomedaii faith ; after which they w» re pre
sented with a horse, a musket and a blanket,
at'd permitted to take Moorish wives. Adams
was now the only Christian at Wednoon, and
lie was becoming an object of derision and per
secution; when 1'ortnnately, at the end of three
days, he was relieved in his feelings by a letter
being received at \\ ednoon, addressed to the
Christian prisoners there, under cover to the
governor, from Mr. Dupuis, the Uritis>Consul
at Mogadorc, exhorting them to withstand ail
attempts to make them give up their religion,
and assuring them that within a month he
should beuLle to procure their liberty. Davi
son heard the intelligence without emotion ;
but Williams was greatly agitated, and hurst
into tears. In about a month, the man who
brought the letter, (a servant of the Consul, m
the disguise of a trader,) informed Adams ho
had succeeded in obtaining Ins release; ami
the next day, they set out together for Moga
dore.
They travelled fur 14 or 15 days, over a coun
try inure thickly inhabited and better cultiva
ted than any which Adams had yet seen. At
Agadccr, they entered Ihc Emperor of Moroc
co’s dominions,where the governor told him
that he had hitherto been among savages, not
the subjects of the Emperor, hut that now he
would be safe, and he secure of good treatment.
On the first day after fins, they discovered the
town of Mogadorc beneath them, and square
rigged vessels lying in the harbor, at the sight
of which, Adams said, he felt as if new life Cad
been given to him. '1 hey went first to thc(»o
vernor, who sent them to Mr. Dupuis. “Nev
er,” says Adams, “ shall 1 forget the kindness
of this good gentleman; lie seemed to study
how he should make me comfortable and hap
py.” He remained with Mr. Dupuis eight
months, who frequently interrogated him as to
the places where he had been, and advised him
to go to England and give an account of his
travels; hut as this country and Great-Britain
were at war, he declined going on hoard an En
giish vessel. Mr. Dupuis,therefore, sent him
toTanmer, t«> Mr. Simpson, the American Con
sul ; Mr. Simpson sent him to Cadi/.; from
whence he went to England, as has been men
tioned.
It is a wonderful fact, that during all this pe
riod, and through this series of sinterings and
cruelty, Adams was never sick a single nay.
It is supposed by the Reviewers, that the boat
described by the vv oman as haring had tu-n sticks
in it, and cloth vn them, vvas the schooner-rigged
boat in which Mr. l’ark departed on his last
tour from Sausandiug. They appeared to doubt
the truth of isuaco’s account of the death of that
celebrated and adventurous traveller ; and to
entertain hopes that the expedition of Major
Peddiedown the Niger, and Capt. Turkey up
the Congo, will throw more lighton that interes
ting subject.
1 X1RTV Dollars reward.. Runaway from
S the subscriber living near Danville in the
enmity of Pittsylvania, on the loth ofjulv last,
a bright mulatto man named BUR WELL, a
bout'il years of age, supposed to be five feet ten
inches high, lias straight black hair, is awkward
in liisappea ranee, and lias i at her a down look
wlien spoken to; the end of one of his fingers is
considerably withered,and has a sear on one
leg, occasioned by a burn. His clothing is not
recollected. He’was raised in Pittsylvania,
hilt I am informed, he lias relations nt a Mr.
.Fields', in Mecklenburg comity, Va. where it is
likely he. will aim to get.
1 am informed, that a fellow of the above dc
srriptionhas been seen in the county of Isle of
M ight, A a. in company with one brought from
that county, who ranaway about the same time,
and that the mulatto fellow had a certificate of
freedom, in then hup of M'm. Cole, by which'
name he will probably attempt to pass!
The above reward will he given for his deliv
ery, or go dollars, in case he is confined in any
jail, so that I get hint again.
N Vl’IIAMEE WIL.SON.
October go.___10-tf ,
7oo sack* salt, I.lverpool tilled;» hl-rts. 8t. tioixnnd
Muscovado sn;t«»•• ; 20 Iddi. loaf do.; lo (•iinriii' ms rely
superior Antigua riiinj ado. Jamaica do.; Hhbds. mo
la«s,o ; t»0 f>bls. Pearson’s and oilier cut nails and brads;
.*1 do. wrought do. ; -woo lbs. green coffee; lo urns assor
ted bar iron; 11-2 do, plough plates; blistered and Ger
man *ti el; 2 tons well-assorted shot; 0 qr. casks Sherry
seine ; 5 do. do. Malaga do; fain-powder, imperial and
young hyson teas; fresh and of snprrlor quality; 0 by to
and in by lg glass; copperas, l.ondon mustard, l.ondon
Kcltned «alt-petre; ludico, madder and brimstone; Nut
Mcas, pepper and pilitents ; Race ginger ; a qnautlty of
proof n liisky, In iibds & bills.
Which we oiler for sale on accommodating terms.
ASTlF.li0ON & tiAI’.S'EY.
October o. I5 ?m
\M J tMl .s p.tVP.H FMlW—wa s.ti.r.-- I wish to sell
. the Tnn t nf f,/»nd, on which 1 lalrly refilled, ly
ing on James river, in the lower end of the comity of
Nelson, containin'! ainr hiinilrril and forty arrrr—
There t» on ibis land ihe usual proportion <il tow grounds
-The dwl'lliuc hon«c and offices arc of brick, lately
built, and Ihe farm-house* ate good and abundantly con
venient.—The situation is deemed remarkably healthy.—
' erop of wheat will hr -own, aud poa««ss!on given this
tail. The terms w ill Ik- made to accommodate the |tur.
chaser.
Further obserra'ions arc deemed unnecessary, as It Is
presumed th< purchaser will prefer to judge for himself
by a view of the premises.
Application may be made to the subscriber, living in
Richmond, nr to William II. Cabs’ll, Ksq. who lives near
He land, and will shew it to those inclined lo view
it. He is al*o authorised to sell It.
0GORGE CAfiF.M,.
■SeplemlH r 7._3Vtf
IF.tf IM- K W \Vrtl>.—Ilie Subscriber wishes" 7o
envoae for ... . veara v-tttigman. wbo is well
i,oni titled to teat b the l.atin 6c English language* In its va
non* branehes.
It will t<e nee,•#.ary far applicant m eomr well recom
mended, both as to capability of teaching and private cha
ANDREW' IIAR r.
Livcri-ool— London Supcnine Cloth* & Cauiiaere*,
Moleskin ; Toihnett; and Sw*n*»lown r.aivcoatin** ; l’e
liw and ladim' Cloth*; tine flannels; Green Cant; Sc
rirni Clotlu; Plain*; Kersey*; Cmitiu:*; Feat noughts;
Half Thick*; Kendal Cotton*; Rose. Strip't a*;d Point
Blanket*-. Floor and Stair* Carpeting ; Klastic Cord* and
Stofkinsnett*; Mens' and Woin-n*’ Silk, Cotton, Wors
ted & Larnl)** wool Hosiery; Black and Fancy Colour- ■
<-d Romhadue* and Bombazeu*; Mancheatry, Fur
niture Dimities; Colton Check*; Diapers; Huckaback*;
Fa'iR- Cloths; F.leeant Shawl*; Cstnhrlc anil Madras*
I'ecket Humtkrrcliirf* ; Ladies and Gentleman's Cloves;
rape, : bobbin,; Shirt {lotion*; Cotton Balls; Coloured I
threads; Ltnen I'.erl Ticks;—A few ease* well-assorted
Cutlery—Orman Steel, Button*, Pin* ami Needle*;
DoubleGloucever Cheese—W itsou’s Brow a Mont—Ilml
dri’, London Mustard, At. Ac.
The above goods have been selected by an Lxcellent
Agent in London, and purchased with money, and will
be sold low lor Cash, or town acceptances, by the piece
or package-September IS.3d-If.
|^\t I, (i(l(H)S.. .Jameison tf Co. have just
received from N'ew-York, a large ami gen
era! HJ-ortment of DRY-GOODS, wliich they
will soil at very reduced prices, for cash or towii
acceptances.
October 20- 40-tf
1 \rAir.Sc JF.RIVMlAll RYl.i: have just re
v v reived, anti arenow opening in the house
formerly occupied by Messrs. F. A. Mann if Co.
four doors below the" Bell-Tavern, a pretty gen
eral assortment of DR Y-GOODS, suitable for
the present an«l approaching season ; and hav
ing purchased at I lie present reduced prices,
th*’v will be enabled to sell low.
They are in daily expectation ofa further sup
ply.
July 27.23-tf
JOHN Ah' i’il KU-S< under the Eagle ’/’«>•
fra, tiro doors ahnre the Farmers’ Rank,) Iras
just received his FAFF GOODS, comprising
as elegant an assortment as is to he found in ana
one house in the City of Richmond, among which
•are, .Saxon cloths and cassimcrcs, rich merino
shawls, Merino cloth, and a fVesli supply of Fan
cy Goods, which lie will sell very cheap for cash.
' -y Cortnlrv Merchants will find it to their inte
rest loculi; as independently of the low prices,
the time of payment will be made to suit purcha
ser,, on good town or country security.
_ October 23._ |H-tf_
Ff)lt SALIC, by the Subscribers, at their
Auction Store, on the Market-Bridge :
GRGCF-RfES..70 ldids. Muscovado sugars;
2f> ldids. Neiv-Orleansdo.; 200 bags, 50bids. 20
tierces Coffee; 50 bags old Java do.; 30 ldids.
Antigua ruin; 10 ldids. old Jamaica do.; 10
pipes real Holland gin ; t pipes and 20 barrels
country do.; 30 boxes old Irish doT; jo bids.
Caruther's rectified whiskey; 37 hlids. molas
bert's brown stout: 350 crates assorted earthen
w are; 1001)sacks salt, par t Liverpool fill’d suck s;
10 tons shot; 20 tons bar-iron ; 10 tons nail rods;
100 bids, prime and mess pork; 20 bags pepper ;
25 bags Allspice.
DRV-GOODS. .9.0 bales striped blankets;
5 do. superfine Welch flannels, superfine cloths,
Ca.V>imerf*S.cmnmrmi»!nllie nl'itne M-n •
aprs cotton poods, consisting of'shirtinps, cam
brics, velveteens, cords, handkerchiefs, cotton
hosiers, \c. ,vc.
H Alt DWARF, CUTLERY, 4v...lj packa
ges assorted hardware, cutlery, Ac.
DAILY EXPECTED..# hhds. Non Or
leans sugars, said to be very tine ; IS hhds. An
tigua rum; 60 baps prime preen coffee ; and a
lai pc and valuable assortment of fresh import
ed DRY-fiOODS, calculated for the approach
ing season.
J. Brou n, jr. <$• W. Finnrtf,
„ , • Vendne-Masfers.
September 11.
^ImiKRhANO CfilxiGhcAw a to.—
0 w ill receive in a dny or two, by the ship
Auipara, from Urerpool. n part of their FALL
GOODS—Consisting ot rose and duffel blan
kets, napt cottons, plains, kerseys, coatings,
flannels, cloths. Manchester stuffs, superfine
cloths and cassimores. Ac. Ac.—with an assort
ment of hardware and cutlery.
They daily expect the balance of their poods
hv the ships John lirotcn from Liverpool, and
Edward from Ixjmioii.
September I t. _ 27-tf
ll’1 r l- HOODS.—Per the slup Mary, and hii<»'Alldou
-*■ and Thomas Itourli, from Liverpool :
Rose, point and duil'el blanket* ; napt onions; saga
tbys, Kilmarnock caps ; plains, kersey* and ilnshuigs ,
coatings and fearnoughts ; flannels, white and colored;
1 orksbirq,cloths and eus-lntrres ; ladies’ and pelisse
cloths ; swatisdowu and loiliuet rest Inca ; black and fan
cy rolonred bomhazctles, plain and twilled ; rattinetts •
superfine elot Us and rassitncrrt; merino shawl-; harct
"3re and cutlery ; an assortment of Fou ling Pieces, of
superior manufacture; crati* and China ware, well se
lected—orrkRKU son salii nv
DICKS,.MOORE ft Co.
September It._ :w.l{
SMITil .v RIDDI.E have removed to Cary Street, a lit
tle above the ctoss-stTeet leading from the Bell I a
vTrn, where they offer for .-ale,(London particular Madeira
wine, shipped by two oftbefoldest houses in the islaud,
lit pipes, hogsheads, qr. and hall'-qr. casks, of very supe
rior quality ; London particular leneriffe Wine, in pipe*
old and tit for immediate use, the qnality considered ex
cellent: Vntigua ruin ; llotltaan’a loaf sugar, at the tna
nnfactory prices ; Liverpool salt, in sack* of bushels ;
Swedes iron, well assorted ; pepper, in bags ; rut nails
ol various sizes ; French fair boot-tops; Boston sheet
glass, in cases ; hollow glass ware, from Bolicinia, in do.
—queen’s ware, assorted, in crates ; tea rliina, in sets ;
a tew packages of hardware, cutlery, cotton hosiers ’
lace shawls,Ac. received on consignment, direct from
the manufacturer's in England,
i Vi so, daily expected, a consignment of Fresh Cetl
cutter SfAK COOPS consisting of Bandanna haild
kereineis, rompmy llag handkerchiefs, company lhnrv
romals, Ac. ' ej ’
October 5. 4 | jf
| --------
ROBERTA- HALL NEILSON, are now receiving an >■
iegaut assortment of FRESH GOODS, adapted to
I tli* .S«*a*on, amomrst which arc :
Best I omlon-superfine cloths and enssimeres ■ seeon/t
tfiunii> c.'MiiHHiii tin. ; ladl****’ nnd Ii*a!»it do. ;
t-f?; superfine mill'd am) single casslttieres ; second am)
common rtu-; patent, Angola, and clastic cords; Man
chester cords and velveteens ; Wellington, loilinclt and
oilier t*nc> vestings : mole-skin ami florentine do. ; Ker
•r>, mole skin, and plain coatings; stout fearnought* and
dockings ; kerseys aud forest (dams ; red, white and yel
low ■fennels ; rose, point and striped blankets ; German
omaburg* and ticklcnburgs ; 4 1 aud 5-» rliread aud rot
ton cle rk ; printed, plaid, twilled Ac plain bumlia/ette* ;
black and colored bombazines; black and colored tubi
r.cits and luslirs ; 7-j and 4-4 Irish linens, of all qualities
—thread cambrics and long lawns ; 7-4 and 10-t thread
diaper and damask ; 3 4 diaper napkins; strain loom,
long cloth and patent shirring.*; silk, worsted and cotton
hosiery-; silk, kid and beaver gloves; figured and plain
lUiuuie silks ; figured and plain levantines and satins ;
rich merino *hawl* and handkerchief* ; imitation and
levantinc do. ; daruask and serge do.; printed cambric
do.: black and colored Italian cranes ; black and rolor
eil Centon do.; imperial silk velvets ; imperial crape
rinb.ni* ; rich Colic,,,rg and Waterloo do. ; plain, satin
& Instring do.; rich wbi-e larr dresses ; black, and white
lace veil* a»id shawls ; thread, silk and cotton lace* ; real
India mull lunslin*; piam a figured imitaiinndo.; Water
loo and plain cambrics; cambric aud common gingham*
—printed cambric and calicoes ; fnriiitnfr calicoes and
iHniities—With a in at vuritiv of other Good*, forming a
complete and extensive assotilueaf, w hich they will soil
at unusually low pricee.
November 2. jptf
JU.ST received <)>' ship Mary, from Liver
pool..
•10 Net* elegant gold-burnished tcu- x H’ithmtt
china, new &. beau tit til patterns, f u hop'*
30 sets fine enamelled, plain do. < and
Vtio .. .. I>l i,e printed. * Sue at*.
100 dozen elrin.t piti In rs, assorted sires {wart
elegant, uud patterns new i
60 • • fine enamelled, with landscape*. Ac
109 .. .. blue printed
HO wash-basins, very large sues—(with and
without ewers)
19 hhds. dining *t ts very complete
•1 .. Plates (distinct from) sets, dlniver,
breakfast and tt .i
eliildien'* toy tea Jets, lettered, rurvts fee.
Ahti> \ few e rat os blue and grevu-edge d
plates and dishes.
The above Articles were imported bv us di
rect from tiic manufactory, and purchased at
low pric es, which will enable us to sell them on
very good terms.
DKRW A BLAIR, /Vie d;«>r*
abate liell-'l inini.
i*> Order# from the country promptly at
tended to, and every piece warranted against
breakage. L>, ,N B.
September 11, j»c, tf
\ I A MS HAL’S SALE.. On Katnrdav, the
i * I 23d thv of November next, before the
floor of the RaleighTavetu, in the city of \vj|
I’amsburg, there will be. sold, for ready' monev
III it At/// NF.dFiOtifi, of various descriptions’
trso many thereof as may be sufficient to satis
fy an execution in my bands, \iz.. Hannon rs.
Harvic,executor of Wm. Wilkinson, tlee’d
sued from the Clerk's Office of the Superior
rourtofChancerv for the Districtol' Williams
burg, and d.Uid l(Hhdavof()ctober, |H|Vi
THOMAS ARCHER
Marshal, W, C, t) C
Novciabari. 61-3t*
nunkv River with that of \oritTtiuTo\^^ ./:£££■,
Lremitv being afiout 1 miles belbvv—-the .....
» above West-Point. It cxtcuRs whom B
miles on the River,and is almost HR* whole M
neck formed by tne bend of the FaV\iunkv . ' ^B
York Rivers. ‘It i« almost superfluous * ^B
that it is-all Hat laud. The advantages ;,r,. *' iBB
abundance offish, oysters <S< crabs— alio)\.i""' EIB1
offer a profitable tfatfick to Richmond ,""1 fljB
which it is distant ubout forty miles.—1'| j*0 ,0'!| EB
is peculiarly adapted to Indian corn, wl;i|.. V;*1' HSl
alniiidnut marshes attached to it afford j, j4, 1‘ RB
failingfund nfiimnino, to which the indu' 19
man can never resort,without success_hl.v kS
Creeks rmv into this Land, supply a hu 9#
tion of meadow ,giving the industrious "fur. ' B
as much fresh hay as he might desire, whlis,,|i'r
marsh would give him Ifaorc snlt huv than s' Kf
could cut. This tract eonfaiiisaboutfoyn '.,,. "l' 9BE
exclusivcof S09 or 1000 acres of marsh BR
e._.i.I.. . >i..i..' . . “> *11 9U
most accomodating. ^B
The purchaser paying interest, might have i O
own time. Auy person wishing to mirel.n. |fl
desired to apply to Mr.Thos. Ta\lor. Iff,.i... I* HE
or to thesuiiscriber in Williamsburg. fl|
The land will be shewn, on antriumis*-. i Wi
letter. _BURWKL!4 fl
r; 7* Tt having been found impracticable . ! m
off the crop of corn, \c. bv the tiOtb Novemf"' * F '•S'
as before advertiss d.tbe public sale is p0„. '*;• I *
ed t ill further notice—the property w,(f he Ji"'- 1 £
treated for at private sale.—Rv order of ,VU N
proprietor, THOMAS TAYl.op e I
November ii. f»l-tf ' *
XT O" i« Hie Press,and will be pubi/aTi I
IX on the 1st December, 181fi.. 77/f- II
■mnv or UHGIMa-Commenced bv/jin fl
Inn k, and continued by Skelton Jones and i » i
H. Oirardm. “• E £
A series nfuntoward and melancholy eim,.„ 1#
stances has long delayed the publication of Z
above Work, ntul its delivery to Subscriber, K
Soon after finishing voluines’nf it, |’u i j|3
was prematm ely and fatally cut offin thopi-iine 1 ’ •
of hte, a ltd at a moment when his natural!* I t
power!ui mind had derived additional vienV I
rtoin intense and vast researches. Mr.Skeltm. 1
Jones was t lien induced to undertake the rnn §
pletion of the task; but lie died in the u’rv F ‘
threshold ol th-.tr undertaking. Sixty-five «,«?, fl
oidy have issued from his brilliant pen- •?>•,) P
the printing ofthepart written by Mr.T5intr.iin I*
bus men retarded by difficulties no less nun-, I -
rons than unexpected. fl
^,T?rtiot.1 «><■ the “History of Virginia-* I
wlueb fell to the lot ot the last named \
nnn. embracing the chief, political, oivii
military transaetionsofour great re,voUitioi>j..v I
periods, is from the very nature of the siihjcr;
entitled tonationalnttention. There are in tliJ '
human constitution principles which do not r
permit us to behold, without a deep and \ ivid it.
u u*si,tne;mii!<Hisnim glorious struir&rloiwirch
history often presents to our view. We mean
those straggles in which truth contended witli
error, virtue with profligacy, freedom with t'
ranny We feel, even at this distant day, fW
republican Greece armed against the iuvndin»
myriads ot Persia—far the United Netherlands
resist mg the despotism and bigotry of enthralled
am. enthralling.Spain—for thehrave and virtu
<ms Swiss hurling defiance in the face of of proud
Austria. How powerfully, then,must onr svm.
pnilucs he excited both as men and t)S citizens,
when we see not ancient, not foreign patriots
hut our ow n beloved and revered forefathers',
opposing with successful energy, a'systematic
and wanton infringement ot their natural
and their chartered right*— creating a new
houy politic—in short, establishing 7>v their
wisdom, and cementing with their blood, that
political independence ami those civil and reli
gions liberties, which we now so happily enjoy
and which if wc continue faithful to onr hi»n
destinies, no power upon earth, no foreign iim
tility, no domestic intrigue, shall ever Wr« -,t
trom our possession !—Surely if the pencil of
history has at any time delineated scenes e, I
enliited to attract our attention,and engageoiir
sensibilities, such scenes, are to he found in the
present work ! Let us add, that in the urnscco
tmn «t this laudable undertaking, the continua
tor has been guided by a strict and undeviating
regard tor truth, animated by an indefatigable
ardor of research., and bv a generous desire of
perpetuating to the utmost of his individual ex
ertions, that glorious spirit, those admirable and
sacred principles, w hich dictated the measures,
and accomplished the exploits, recorded in 1)1 s
narrative. He has brought to light a ma3S of
interesting local tacts; detected and rectified
errors of mischievous tendency; ami all a Ion «■
adapted his style to the inherent grandeur ami
dignity of his subject. The extracts from his
part of the History already before the public,
must, wc trust, justify our opinion; and, indeed’
we can prduce in favor of the work, a testimoni
al of much higher authority than ours. Mr.
Jefterson’s extensive historical collection was
kindly opened to the continnator's researches.
I liiit distinguixed patriot, whose zeal and abili
ties were so early and so efficiently displayed in
those very scenes which Mr. Girardin undertook
to retrace,has, with his usual affability, conde
scended to read the manuscript, & bestowed on
it his approbation, in the following words:
,. ,V”. ,v \ ’ returns u» Mr. tiiraruin
Ins ■>/. s. w hich he has read w ith great satisfac
tion. And must express with sincerity, his
jicculiar gratification on seeing this portion of
American History, that of hits native State, so
ably recorded for poster!tv.”
Other Gentlemen, eminent in the literary
world, have spoken in terms equally favorable
ot tho: e parts ot I he coni inucitimt which have been
submitted to t heir judgment—Imt we. deem it
unnecessary to say more on this head. The work
will soon he before the public. Let it be
tested by its intrinsic merits!
CONDITIONS. »
The whole Yl ork will be comprised in t vo
lumes of a large Svo. size, on fine paper with a
new and handsome type. The 4th volume will
contain about fkOT pages—the three voluinesal
ready published fall little short of that quanti
The original price was to be to subscribers
three dollars per volume, neatly bound in sheep
and lettered, or two dollars, and n half in
boards. The Proprietors have determined to
reduce that prit t»half a dollar per volume, -as
a small compensation for the unavoidable delay
which has taken place in preparing ami brinprinsr
out thelast volume.
n . „ the proprietors.
Petersburg, October .12. m_ wt 1st D
fpilIRl V Dollars reward..Ranawav from
■ the subscriber, 27th ult. in Richmond, a
likely negro girl, named SALLY, about the
age of In years, common size, and dark com
plexion. It is probable she is harboured in
wieiimmul,or perhaps will make good her wav
to w illiam&imrg, as she was purchased of jti r
»v tn. A Candlish ofthateitv.
1 he above reward w ill be given to any person
that will confine said girl in any place, so that I
get her again. A. GUNN.
Caswell ( t. House, N. C. ftO-llt*
' IV" ™ ' IM»W 'KS~ RKW4U1>.-St»len from
■ Plantation of Mrs. Sarah Wilkinson, m ar Charlotte*
vllls, Cumberland cor.niv, on Wednesday |,j»|lt p1P
of September, ,i rhrtnut xorrel IWN.HH, abont’.V fret nnn
*'* *.. •“ formerly owindbv Aimer Kotrioaon.ot
lie liinoinl, of whom I purr based him ; he is about rt years
old. Ill ir III hejud«edhv some to b? older; one of his hind
Iv<.!- white, nearly as hi*b as the aorle -also three m>«i*
on one of his shoulders,believed to be tlw left, occasion
V bv a rope, whlrh spots are naked and nearly in a line,
one )>< low the other.about (he si /e of an light,, n inure .
•nine few saddle spots ; and, on examination, may tie di»
eoj er.d under theJnwri knot, about the sire <,f an ounce
l all.onjMODedhv lliefarh; lie has a lung switch tail,
paces, trot- and gallops; j,,.,, inclined to be vicious,car
ric- a very high head, alien rode without a marllneal*—
here are hut few men able to command him w hen in
company, parti « art, If (ruled , as to form, thne arc
• ur few i-eMlnestli;.! *r,,a«s him ; hrls very length! for
»"'* uncommonly deep throueh the shoulders,
i’... * 1,1 b' riven to any person w ho will dc
Uirr the said horse, or give Infonnation so that I art him
* o.'toVr 17,_JAMKX e.wii.Ktvsy.
f |LtE •*’ul»ociioers having entered into eo.
■ partnership in the (fo)itMii**hn-Ha^nims ini*
t' I,}"? ,'n? C'-hnbi Sf S,itie in Richmond,ami
• etc r t\' Lchats in l.vneljbuig, pledge them
selves that no exertion shall he wanting on
their part to promote the interest of those who
may consign to their care.
JOSEPH ECHOLS,
.... JOHN M. SETTLE.
October 12. 43-tf
!Vow WJWIXO, at the I „N<, hoou, Market Flrklgt.
V1" nf t)RY Uoottft, purchased
,,rtC^whiCb W’“
« 'Vkobcf 29. camm Williams.
tLC--—