when he will be allowed to go out, an es
cort will guard him. Nr.mV. ships will not
bo allowed to approach S'., lie ten a, ami
when a sail is esp.utl, Bonaparte w.li bo
»• *t up in hii enclosure.
General S.i vary i-, still in a small
ship on tile English Coast. It is not
known wluiL has become of General l.aUe
.naml.
* An artiu/w one hundred square ;vr. hc» of IX
fret cavil.
.'lugunt 25.
Count Regnault St. Jean d’Angely, ex
minister of state t ■> lion parte, ike. set oil*
this moraing for Havre de Grace, accom
panie 1 by his sea, lo embark tor the lTai
ted State ; ot America. Hu had been con
fidentially informed that wisdom and
prudence rendered such a voyage necc .xa
**y*
Sr ifToldi r.re erecting round the triumph
al arch ot the Thoilleries, for the purpose
of removing the letters N. and the ei
rIch platted on that mono nt'nt—also the
figuu; of IMe; p.irte placed against the
vault of the inferior ox that triumphal
arch.
August 20.
Two days ago Madame N.-v waited on
tht Due de Kohan. It is said that some
days before, this lady had applied to a
great nnuxrch to intercede for her hus
band, but that the answer she received
was not favorable.
Lesh n, August 2.
kVa arc assured that Joachim Murat,
who found means to embark, has joined his
wife iu Austria.
Hamburg, August 22.
Private letters fro n Paris say, that their
majesties, the Emperor of Russia and the
King ot Prussia, will return in .six weeks
to Berlin, byway of Frankfort. The Em
peror Alexander will then go to War
saw.
liable, August 13.
Travellers who arrived here yesterday
affirm, that they heard a long and heavy
cannonade on the side of Bet'nrt. On the
11th, in the evening, news had been bro’t,
that gen. Lecourbe had denounced the ar
fe Yesterday afternoon Iluniugucn hoist
ed a red and a tri-coloured fl .g. An ex
press that was sent from here to Brsaticnn
jL is just arrived, not having b-en admitted
into the place, which has been blockaded
for s< me days. According to his account a
counter revolution has broke rut, in
which many royalists ha\e peri-he l.
I On Sunday the red flag w is also hoist
\\ ed a*. Retort, Some severe fighting is
said to have taken place befoie that
place.
BATTLE OF LAKE CHAMPLAIN.
• J\ruval Court Afanial.—The Cm t Ma;
tial held at Portsmouth, on board tiie GL
diator, on Capt. Phing (nextSenior Olfi
cer after the death of Capt. Dow x i k,) and
the other Officers under his command, for
.j the loss of the British squadron on L ike.
Champlain, closed its proceedings cn Alon
dav last. The following is the decision of
the Court:
p “ 'Flic Court having maturely weighed
the evidence, is of opinion, that tiie capture
? of his Majesty’s ship Con fiance, and the
remainder of the squadron by the American
squadron, was principally caused by ti.e
British squ ilron having been urged into
•: battle -pievious to its being in a proper
| state to meet the enemy, by the promised
co-operations nt‘the land forces not bring
c irried into effect, and by the pressing let
ters of their Commander-in-Chief, where
by it appears that he had, on the 10th of
September, 1814, only waited for the naval
■ attack, to storm the enemy’s works; and
the signal of the approach on the following
<1 »y having been made by the scaling of
the guns, as settled between Capt. Downie
and M .jot- Coore, and which promised co
operation was common c ited to the other
officers and crewaKjf the British squadron
b fore the commencenunt of the inior.
“ Th’ C mrt, however, is of opinion, that
the att ck would have been attended with
more effect, it’ a part of the gun-b >ats h id
not withdr iwn themselves from the action,
and others of «he vessels had not been pre
vented by baffling wi ds, from g-ttiog in
to the stations assigned to them—that Capt.
bring, of the Linn L, and Lic-ut. Robei tson,
who succeeded to the command of the
Oonfianrc, after the lamented fate of Capt.
Downie, whose con-'uct was marked by
the greatest valor, and Lieut. Christopher
[ Bell, ccmmati ing the Murny, and Mr.
Robertson, co'r.ni ,nding tiie iDresford gun
boats. who appeared to take their trials at
this Coii’t M itti il, conducted themselves
with great zeal, bravely and ability, during
the action—th t Lieut. Win. li cks, com
manding tiie Finch, also conduct' d himself
in the act on with greet bravery—that the
other sui". iving officers and ships’ crews,
P excepting Lieut. M’Giiic, of the Chub, wh >
' «liit* Iihit to f kr» hie *. 1 □ I <»!_
W • )cor duc t-' themselves with braveiy ; and
■ that C.«pt. Pring, Lieut. Kubertson, Lieut,
I Hicks, Lieut. C. Belt, aitd Mr. James Kob
■ orison, and tha reit of the surviving office s
■ and ship's company, except Lieut. M’Clhic,
I ought to ha most honorably acquitted, and
I they are hereby moat honorably acquitted
v accordingly.”
■ From the London Globe of Avr. 21.
■ We have received the answer of the
■ French Ministers to the official note ad
B dressed to them by those of the allied pow
I ers, near three weeks past, in which they
■ appoint Military Governors and order
■ their troops to be dispersed over the J ro
■ Vinces.
B jhntxuer e>f the Frmch Alin intent tn the Of
B ftcial Aote ff the Allied Sovereign*.
B ** The King’d Minsters hi ve re eived
the official note addressed t • them by ifie
Ministers of the allied powers. The lat
W t r wish to persuade the King’s ministers,
K that the measures which they have cnn»
i rnanded to the government of Paris, are
B such as may Contribute to diminish the ex
9 action a of the war, and to re-establish the
B royal authority. The king's ministers,
B however, unfortunatdy, e nnot regtrd
R these measures in tnat p tint of iew. They
B owe it to the hover* Igns, to France and to
B themselves, tocxplam themselves on this
9 subject. The sovereigns, doubtless, arc
H the tn tsters, vidxan do whatever they dc
Bb sire, but at any rate i**t th- in imtsiy, that
9 in t iking every step calculat'd ti run
of !ns Majesty, tint 'It v wish to
MtaB' ii* • >» on 'J'ueri* s
Bp
losses and the d.epest humiliations. What
humiliation can i*c more afflicting than t<
lee in a time of peicc all the departments
subjected to your military goveroots_wh it
mistortune more to he deprecated than the
dispersion of your troops ever the whole
face of the country ? The sovereigns de
clared that they only made war agiinst
Napoleon, aud yet all their measures bclte
their words, since at the present moment,
when the war ought to be finished, it is on
ly about to commence. The pre sent po
sition of France is so much the more af
flicting, ns w :c wi,r openly declared
(which it is not.) it is utterly impossible
that she can suffer in a greater degree all
its evils, and ail its horrors. Every where,
wherever the armies arc (all excepting
the English,) pillage, fire, rape and mur
der, have bceu carried to their fullest ex
tent ; avarice and vengeance h ive left no
thing for the officers or soldiers to dtsire.
lo speak with freedom, they exceed ev« n
the atrocities of which the French armies
nave been too often justly accused. The
measures, however, alluded to in your
Notes, can have no other results than
to extend the limits of this devasta
tion. 1 he armiesspre id themselves in our
Provinces, and all the horn rs whi h we
have depicted follow m their train, tiucli
are the sentiments of the king and Minis
ters on the new Deere, and iheir answer
to the appeal which has been made to
them.
14 l hey have the honor to subscribe
themselves, with the highest coni .ora
tion.
“ TALLEYRAND,
“ FOUCIIE.”
Heston. October 19.
FROM FRANCE.
Lust evening arrived at this port the
barque Leopard, Capt. Masters, in 48 days
from Bordeaux. Capt. M. stat-s,'hat eve
ry th og w s tranquil in and near Bordeaux
—and th.it a 1 cl.ssrs of people were en
thusiastic in the cause of the Bnurbons and
free trade. Capt. M. has far re l us with
the “ Le ATimmortal Bordelais,” of Aug.
‘ 9, from which \vc made the following
transl ition:
Bordeaux, .lutr. 29—The journey of
their Royal Highnesses the duke and duch
ess d Augouleme, has every where been
attend' cl with the most animated and bril
liant t« stimortals ol affection and respect.
At. A gen, it was past midnight before his
royal highness arrived, and the illuminati
ons which had been made were burnt out ;
Imt they were immediately icvivcd and
augmented on his arrival.
At Montauban, the 26th, he wns n.ct by
t- c \ isenunt \ illeneuve, and numerous ci
ther officers, rolun*eers, See. and compli
mented with the highest expressions of 1 v
ahy ; w-ho rec iwd the regrets of his roy
al highness, that his mission would not per
mit him to t u ry to receive the testimonials
of respect which they offered, but that her
royal highness Madame the Duchess would
speedily visit them and make amends. The
troops were all under arms, and the air
eyas rent with the cries cf ‘ Vive lc Roi !
Vive le Due d'Jugoulcntc .' Vive Aludume T
a thousand times repeated.
I he Duke d’Angouleine is now on a
journey to Spain ; and will he followed by
Madame the Duchess immediately. They
will be accompanied bv a numerous suite.
The ball given by Mad «me the D ichess
of Angouleme on the King’s birth night, at
the Chateau Royal, was conducted with a
splendor which could only be exceeded by
the presence of :t princess, who is the ob
ject ct the love Sc ad in ration of all France,
rue supper was sumptuous. Her rryal
lughness retired at midnight, but the dan
cing continued until day break.
1 be Marquis de la Kouchc Jacquelin is
deceased.
The Marquis de la Tour Dupin, com
mandant of the den irtinem of the Gironde,
h is ordered that all the general and staff
officers, See. of the late Boaapartean army
of the Western Pyrennecs, retire, without
delay, to their respective homes, and there
wait for ulterior orders.
Toulouse, 'Jug. 25.—The day before
vest 'M-day, it was currently, reported that
the Spanish troops quartered n-ar Bellc
girdc, menac'd our frontier. Tho* this re
port was contrary to the tenor of the proc
lamation of the mayor of Bayonne, Gen.
IvK 11 (1 tooa measures of safety, and dt-par
t^-d for the frontier on the road to Perpig
nan. fbs H. Q. we are assured, were
yesterday at Carcassona. The battalion of
Maria Theresa, a regiment of lancers, a
train of artillery, &c.. have departed for the
same destination. All the troops in the
neighboring departments, are placed on
the war establishment. These wise mea
sures of precaution, and above all, the ex
planations of the Count AbAval, the com
mander of the S^a ish army, ought to dis
sipate all inquietudes.
Rolcgnc, [Italy,-] Jug. 9—Prince Gius
timam has set at liberty a great number
ot the persons who were detained for ha
vinir been foxnrl m nfivunt-oo.*. c..
|j . I -411 HIM,
, 1 n/ate Otters from Home, announce
that lias been taken by the allies.
Ccti'Ht, Aug. 13—The navvy from Corsi
ca ;s very contradictory. Letters bv way
of Leghorn sav, the whole Island has sub
mitted to the King of France ; others that
An ight, a cousin of Bonaparte’*, had forti
licd .Lalvr, and was determined to make
the lsl u d independent.
J-I.orrnee, Aug. 2-Dispatches from
1 ot to f,r.ngone, of the 31st, inform, that in
consequer.' e of the advance of the troop*
of the Grand Duke, the French garrison in
l orm I crraio.m the is.am I of ]-’,IUa h id
capitulated, and the Tuscan troops had
marched in, anj taken pn .session of all the
posts of the island, with then- artillery, mu
nition* and other effects.
ID.—ilia Royal Highness the
Hake of Bern, pursues his journey hence
animated by the marks of esteem an I loy
alty who h have followed him every where.
■I" li;,s b xn to B-tluime, Kstai- c,, Lae
orgue, fscc. liicfet. s which are given to
brni, succeed each othc- with rapidny ; and
he Gvity ofais royal lifglm sa augments
the festivity.
At Bethu.nc he was met by all the ladies
of the lilac-, and wasaddressed , mn,)y_
moiseilc Dessaux, to whom he gave a very
amiable' reply,
;)/* The paper from which wc have
translated the above articles, (and the only
erne received bv the Leopard) bears the
fimii dels, and is published bv Lavjgne
I t »• to the King and to the Duke d An
goxemc.
,, ... Paris, .august 21.
Several hurnlrc 1 p ctuiv? have been just
Cirri::', of, from the French Museum by the
#
#
n.’.gic Commissaries—TheEmperorFrftn
• s, has also given orders to take away alt
nat have hetntaken troin Looibat dy, the
States of Venice, Tuscany, Modena, Pur
ina, and ether territories, now under the
domination of th** ilouseoi Austria. l’«ut
with respect to Italy, it is known, (accor
ding to those who arrived at Paris from mat
country) that the precious objects which
the French took in very great numb?rs
h om Itouie, are what are loudly reclaimed
bv the Italians. The Italians claim these
back not merely f r the interest of the un
t ruinate city of Home, but for the advan
tage of all Rome.
jYcw- York, October 22
LATE FROM EUROPE.
By tlie nival of the fast sailing ships
Pacific, fro ; Liverpool, and United State*,
trom llavre-de-Clracc, the Editors of the
Mercantile Advertiser have received Liv
erpool papers of the Kth, London of the 6th,
Lloyd’s List of the 5th, and Paris papers
cl the 4th ot September.
b rc.tr a teview of these, it appears to be
settled in Europe, that a foreign army of
1 >0,000 men is to remain in France and
cc; Upy the principal fortresses. This is
s id to be on of the conditions of the trea
ty 11 Peace wi h England, of which Lord
Stewart was tie heater to the Court of
France, where he had arrived.
Contributions to the amount o( six hun
dred miili ns of intiics have been levied on
the Freuch peoplo, for the support of the
foreign troops.
Marshal Moncey lias been cashiered Lf
imprisv ned, because he refused to net as
President of the C-uncil before whom
Marshal Iscy was brought to trial. The
proceedings on this trial had not termini
t* d ;it the date ot our last advices from
Paris.
The Allied Sovereigns were to leave Pa
ris on the 10th September, to review the
Russ an army at \ ertus in Champagne ;
frotn thence they proceed to review' the
Austrian army in Burgundy ; and after
which, the Emperor of Austria visits Mi
lan, for the purpose rf being crowned king
ot Lombardy, and will be accompanied by
the Emperor of Russia. The king
Prussia will remain with his army in
Fiance.
Two reports on the interior state of
France, connected with the conduct of the
4.uies, nave lately .appeared in the French
p**pets, and have excited unusual inter
est.
An unsuccessful attempt has been made
to assassinate the Duke and Duchess d’An
gouleme.
Ju England, the British Navy were dis
mantling and paying off. The N val
I eace Establishment is to consist of only
eighty vt ssels in commission oi' all des
ert y>tions.
Tne demand for British Manufactured
f.oods, in Yorkshire, Manchester, and in
ail the Manufacturing towns, was great
beyond example, and at enhanced pri
ces.
F-cnrli Funds—5 per cent, consols 62f.
60c.—Hank actions l(/23f. 7oc.
English Funds—3 per cent, consols 62_
Omnium 5,00 prem.
Mr. Chester, a passenger in th Pacific,
is the heaver of dispatches to Government
from Mr. Adams, our Minister .n London ;
a>.d a duplicate copv of ti e Treaty with
A g ms, communicated through Mr. Ad
ams by Com. Decatur.
Among the passengers in the ship Paci
fic, were the Earl and Countess of Selkirk,
and family—and in the ship United States
fr.uu France, the Count Rcgnault de St.
Jean d’ Angely, and some of his family.
Markets in England f w American pro
duce were on the rise : Upland Cotton Is.
lid. to 2s.
1 lie following comprize the most inter
esting articles of intelligence in the English
papers we have received. The French
papers furnish nothing new—
London, Sefitcmber 6.
\Vc have received this morning Paris
papers of Sunday last.
Lord Stewart's return to Paris is announ
ced, and it is added that he has brought
either the Regent’s signature of the Tre.-ty
of Peace, or of important conventions.
While somepers ns.-ireimputing the ex"
cesses in the South of France to the parly
headed by the Duke and Duchess of An
gouleme, the accounts from Nismcs and o
ther places attribute them to the partizuns
of Bonaparte, whose watch word and t ry
are N tpolcon the Second!—A Bulletin
from Nisnu s of the 26ih ult. mentions, that
in order to accommodate an Austrian co
in on, a regiment of royal chasseurs had
been ordered to quit the town and proceed
to Alais. On qunt ng the town, it was at
tacked hy a numerous band and forced to
halt. Eight hundred Austrians proceeded
to reinforce the Regiment, and the Austrian
commandant ordered the rebels to lay down
th'ir arms; they wished to c.ptulate,
hut this was refused, and they fired upon
the Austrians. An act on took place, and
a*ter two hours they were dispersed_
This insurrection is said to have been or
ganized by the Ex-Go. eral Gilly, and the
Ex-Lieut nant of Police at Lyons. Teste_
I hnr object is to establish a war of parti
zans.
Three other persons of low condition
have, been tried for sedition ; unc vms con
demned to 7 years banishment, and the 2
others to one year’s imprisonment. Why
does.not the arm of the law fall upon the
guiltier herd traitors f
The Journal fienerul de Fiance, in an
at !.ii le upon the L'.lectoral (.Colleges, asks
wlo.in have th'-y chosui as I deputies f._
“ Creatures of It >nnp:irte, lovers of an
archy and disorder ? No—hut wise and
rpiiet men, friends r.f th* r King and rotr,
tr/—m n wh >se sentiments are pure and
certain.” The us • of such expressions is
anoth r symptom of the declining influence
of F.niche.,
F.mi h", as* our Correspondent informs
ii", tend« te l his resignation list Thursday,
but the U<ng d clmcd accept tig it. This
**urpr s s us almost as much as ttie appoint
ment of this man to office. Hut, it vv is
suppos'd the King would be prevailed on
to appo nt anoth i M nister of Police bc
f re the meeting of the two Chambers_
It is true, we lreliev*, that a second report
or memorial was drawn up, hut F *m h ■ is
neither the author of this nor thf* first. Hut
tii -y were written by one of his partisans,
Mid h ave been industriously circuit ted._
I he ohjert of the hrst, was to induce a be
lief that the miseries of France were all
occasioned bv the Allies, and to fix the na
tional attention and indignation entirely up
in tliem. Tn the second, which we have
i >t yet seen, it is said that some severe rc
Ttarks arc umdc upon the Members of nil
the Royal Family, the King alon' excep
ted. lc is wished to have it believed that
they are adverse to the constitutional char
ter, anil that they recommend a ivtuni to
the old order of things.
Hints at the same ti ne are throwTi out,
ihat the rc-actton in the South is the work
nt the Duke and Duchess ot Aiignuleme_
Nearly tlte same means were adopted last
year, when the r.rv of the Bonaparteans and
ot the factions of every denomination, was,
that the feudal tenures would be revived,
that the sales of emigrant property would
lie annulled, that the wealth and power
which had grown up with the Revolution,
would he swept away by a single blow.
I In cry was false, but i’s operation was u
uiv. rsally and deeply felt.
The same system is pursued now, and
I he promoters of t have to prevent the
King from throwing ofl'that yoke of the re
volutionists, and from firmly uniting himself
with the rest rt the Royal Family .‘gainst
them. I he King is assailed by two oppo
site Counsels—one insists that he mint con
cede to the profligate adherents of :;n u
surping power—that the principles of the
Revolution are nc essary to his existence
—that he trust be a revolutionary king or
none, at all—that the whi le system of
rights, of property, of influence, ex sting
at present in l ranee, is founded upon the
doctrines and practice of the Revolution_
I o attempt the overthrow of this system
would assuredly be to root up the founda
tion ot I* rench society, and thus produce a
■ti.th v fatal convulsion. It was established
by violence and wickedness beyond exam
pie, but it lias become identified with the
interests, the principles and the habits of a
whole generation ; has acquired a sert t*f
prescriptive justice, and has surrounded it
self with an irresistible power—finally,
that he lias no chance but to abide by this
system. Other persons admit that the
system of property ought not to be disturb
ed ; but whilst they admit this, they ar
gue that the maintenance of properly as it
docs rot impose upon the Kutg the nc cssi
ty of choosing his Councillors from a party
which has always shewn itse 1 f the derided
enemy of his family and of his rights—that
the revolutionary spirit will never be ex
tinguished or put down so long as the revo
lutionists are employed in offices of tiust,
power and emolument. Assailed by these
...O -vu.iwiwiv»i,ij 1I1U13UIC UIIUUH
bears tlie charact' r of weakness, if not in
the conception, at least in the execution_
Thus it is resolved to punish the principal
traitors, and all Europe applauds die vig
our and justice of the determination: but
when it is to be carried into execution, we
find dt*;ay, hesitation, indulgence, and, af
ter the lapse ol weeks, one person has only
been brought to trial and punishment.
In opposition to the. rumors of the speedy
ev icuat on of 1' ranee by the allied troops,
we find that in order to complete the c
q nipping of a new levy with all possible
speed, a Loan has been levied upon all the
Bankers in the Prussian States, of five mil
lions ol nx dollars, for which the lenders
are to receive bills of exchange payable in
three months.
The Chambers are expected to assemble
on the 20th, at which time the Allied S >v
ereigns will be employed in reviewing the
Russian army inChampagne ; from whence
they proceed to the review of the Austrian
army near Lyons.
By the late losses in the Jamaicaficet.it
is supp ised that Lloyd’s will be called up
on lor 250.000/. for insurances.
Private letters from Paris, account for
the apparent joy with which the Emperor
Alexander is hailed in that city. When
ever he appears in public, the crowd as
semble around him, and shout “ Vive PEm
ftcrcur /” adding, after a long pause, "Al
exandre," to cov -r the real motive of their
acclamations The homage is ad Iressed
apparently to the Emperor of Russia, but
the secret wish is breathed for Napoleon,
an 1 it is his memory that inspires the en
thusiasm.
I he per! rails of Marshals Prune and
Soult have been removed from the Hall of
the Mars' n!s.
Lord Castlereagh is expected in town
from Paris in the course of this week. IBs
Lordship enquiring of Fnuche whether it
was the intention of the French Government
to proceed against any of the remaining tra'<
tors * Louche laconically replied “ jYey.”
1 he wife ol the unfortunate Labedoyere
died a few days after h r husband’s execu
tion.
Letters from Egypt mention, that the
plagu - is making terrible ravages at Cairo
and its vicinity—the deaths are from 4 to
500 daily.
A large trict of uncleared land in the
state of New-York, to the amount of 17,000
acres has lately been purchased in London
at 4s<»per acre.
A conside rable house in the iron trade
in this city has suspended its payments.
Extract of a firivate letter from Paris, of
the 1 st instant.
“ Within the last few days, “ Vive Na
poleon” has appeared chalked on th r wrIIu I
in several places, particularly on the Pa
lace ot the Legislative Body, and the tri
umphal arch in front of the Thuilleries.—
The relief figures and emblems of Bona
parte are partly removed from both. I
have seen political <! sputes In two or three
instances among the people who assembled
to look at the wo-kmen who arc employ
ed. Yesterday a large crowd of persons of
the lowest order assemb'eri before the tri
umphal arch, they were divided into 2
or 3 circles, and had each ait oratof in the
centre, declaiming upon the miseries of
i r mr e, but without any allusion directly to
the Royal Government. They were almost
immediately dispersed by the police. The
I about ing Gasses in Pans are in a state of
extreme d stress; provisions are growing I
derer, and there is no employment for their
labor. It is quite certain, that their hopes
and fearr. are studiously acted npon, in or
der to inflame their passions. I have been
t 'H, that it is a very t.eneral opinion nmonp
the lower cl isscs ot Paris, that matters will
not end without another struggle.
'* J have heard of officers, who had
made their arrangement.*; to go into the
Russian service, having abandoned that in
tention. Among the reports spread to in
fl me the populace, one is, that the allied
troops are in such a state of insubordination
" as to refuse to leave France, until they
are satisfied with plunder.” The king of
Prussia, it is said,is raising an extranrdma i
ry contingent of 30,000 men, for which pur
pose he is raising money by a loan. The «
French nave the strong >s! 'impression, that •
“ it«» not yet finished.” Even the British i
officers have some, vague notions of there s
being more fighting.”
. Paris,Sept. 3.
Courier r.xtraordinary of Sunday Morning.
1 his day t ic l\.ing ot Prussia will distri
bute colors to tiic regiments of his army
which huil n.it before received any. I'!.'
Emperors of Russia and Austria will be
present at this ceremony.
The Russian troops which were at Pro
virs aiv.l Nangina havv evacuated tluse
towns to proceed to the. 6«mp of Vert'us.
\\re are assured that Marshal Monccy
will undergo his imprisonment at Bitche, in
the Department of the M selle. It is add
ed that he will set out immediately for that
place.
M. deBlacas does not return to France ;
he is at present in Belgium, and intends to
go to Naples.
Letter of the king c.f France to the dear’s.
C titular of the diocese of Paris, the See
bring vacant.
Gentlemen—Deeply affected with the
new proof of mercy which (loti lias bes
towed on us in bringing us back to our
dominions; profoundly afflicted l»y the ex
cesses committed against our holy religion
during the revolution, and hy thecahimnies
which they have drawn upon our kingdom,
my first duty, and the first wish of my heart
is, to express our gratitude to him for the
berefits by atoning as much as possible for
the outrages offered to him, and by implor
ing him tube pleased to pour his blessings
on us and our people. I regret that circum
stances have nut permitted us to do it ear
lier : in consequence my intention is, that
you order solemn and expiatory prayers.
\\ hereupon, I pray God, Messieurs Vicars
General, to have you in h;s holy keeping.
LOUIS.
Written at Paris, Aug. 30, 1815.
Charleston, October 20.
VERY LATE FROM FRANCE.
Arrived yesterday, the schooner Saucy
■lack. Captain /at,lor, i > 40 days from
Bordeaux. Capt. T. brings papers to the
tilh nit. inclusive, an I verhalintelligence to
the 10th. I hey contain no important
news. The people of France still remain
ed in a state of tranquillity, as tosny actu
al resistance to the -dlicd forces—but con
siderable uneasiness and dissatisfaction
rv< un accncmi or me
great number and long stay of their unwel
come visitors. There appeared no other
symptoms of disturbance. Indeed it would
be madness to attempt open resistance a
gainst such an overwhelm ng for. e.
1'lie Paris papers to September I, state,
that the ratification of the Treaty be
tween France and the Allies, by the
Prince Regent of England, had arrived, and
would soon be officially promulgated.
Extracts will be found in our columns,
ho further mention being made of the
proceedings of the military courts against
Bonaparte’s proscribed officers, it is to be
presumed that this bloody business has cea
sed.
S x thousand English troops who were
on their march to Paris, have received or
ders to Halt, and it was said would be order
ed back to England. This looks something
like deliverance.
A corps of 30,000 Russian troops was
reviewed by Alexander on the 1 >st of
August in Paris ; he was accompanied by
th~ Emperor of Austria, the King of Prus
sia, and t'.e Duke of Wellington, (Prince
of ll atcrloo !_) and their respectlv- huiu r
America* produce Vvas in pretty good
demand in Fr .nee at the last dates, as will
be seen below. Brandy was scarce and
h gh—580 to 600 francs per 100 gallons._
I wo thousand pipes had been bought up
for the American market.
We have been favored by a commercial
friend with the perusal of a letter of the
6th ult. from Bordeaux, from which we
have made the following extract—it does
not meddle with political affairs.
[City Gazette.
TRANSLATIONS
From Bordeaux fiaficrs to the 6th of Sr fit.
received in this city by the schr. Saucy
Jack, Cafit. Taylor, in 40 days front
Bordeaux.
Bordeaux, September 6.
The allied sovereigns will leave Paris a
bout the middle of this month, which is
sooner than we expected.
The allied troops cantoned at Berry and
Languem.have left those places. There
are none of the allied forces between Pa
ris and Orleans. The Bavarian troops,
wii > were stationed in the latter place, are
to leave it shortly. M. dc Taileyran 1. pre
fect tf Loire, returned there on the 28th of
August.
I he cordnation of the Emperor and
Empress of Austria, as King and Queen
of Lombardy, was proclaimed with great
eel t.
1 ravellers, who have traversed the
department* of the Loire, state, that the
King’s birth-day was celebrated with en
thusiasm.
A Journal of yesterday states, that two
Austrian officers had been kil ed between
CJrev and 1/ inn ; flu* nppnpti*iKivD mrfn
discovert:More recent accounts say,
they were two Generals. The individuals
suspected to be the assassins, are two Aus
trian chasseurs of the regt. nf Wolf. This
discovery will put an end to the severe
measures whiah were adopted against some
individuals.
Gen. Bel iard is arrived at Paris. Eigh
teen vessels have departed from Bordeaux
for the Tcxel ; of course our commerce is
reviving.
The Ottoman Porte, will march their
troops against the Servian Insurgents_
they continue to use every exertion in pre
paring for defence against exterior danger ;
twelve vessels,taken hy the capt P. eha
from Chs Pirates of the Archipel go, had on
the 17th of July entered the port of Con
stantinople. On the 23d ult. a vessel of
war, mounting seventy-four guns, con
structed under the direction of Monsieur
Benoit, wa3 launched at Constantino
ple. in the presence of the Grand Seign
ior.
The Governor of Smyrna, has forci
bly taken down the arms of Napoleon,
that were placed over the French Con*,ul’s
Hotel,
Puri*, August 30.
M. the Count Depur, commander of the
Austrian troops, has Written to the Mayor
if Avignon a letter, in which is remarked
he following passage;
'* The allied powers, faithful to their
mt.iR, will second with all their means, the
“fr.>rt3 of their august ally , C mis Will, to
i«snre to France a solid and durable peace,
md to his subjects the enjoyment of its be
ICfitfi.
, , -tugimt 31.
I <.•* Dmc ot Bern, before quitting
Lisle# wishing to leave in that city a re
collection of the bounty of the princes ot
hi i illustrious House, remitted to the pvtt. I
te-x a sum of 2,4ou francs, to be distributed '
among the poor.
September 1.
I he Imperial Prince of Austria has
arrived here ; we are assured that he is
direct trom Huninguen, an 1 informs, that
that place has capitulated alter a bom
bardment of twelve hours. The Prince
was the fi st to enter the place. The ar
ticles of the capitulation are not yet pro
mulgated.
VV> are assured that the ratification of
the treaty between France and the allies
by tin* Prince Regent has arrived, and that
an official account will be speedily publish
Six thousand EngFsh troops, which were
on their march to Paris, and who had rea
ched Royal, in Picardy, had received orders
to halt; and,it is said will be ordered back,
to England.*
I he commanding officers of the Allied
troops stat'oned in Burgundy, have or
dered their soldiers not to enter the
vineyards, under pains of severe punish
ments.
Bayonnk, August 31.
ORDER OF THE DAY.
The army of his most Christian Maies
ty having entered France, and the orders
of his highness the Duke of Angouleme, in
execution of the orders of the King being tu
repulse force witli force, and to make use
of all the troops, whether of the line or of
the national guards, which can be united
under his comm md ;
l he army of Lieutenant-General O’
Donnell, Count Labisval, having approach
ed much nearer Bayonne und*r our com
mand, to an is prescribed in the military
regulations—we declare by this present
order, the town and citadel of Bayonne to
be in a state of siege.
We inform at the same time, the inha
bitants of Bayonne that there is not any
measure of precaution which we shall not I
adopt, and that, directly hostilities shall
commence by the general commanding the '
Spanish army, we shall retort on the de- j
icixai > tr.
We engage m-^inwhile the civil author
ities ot the city of Bavnnne, to continue
the discharge ot their functions, as in ordi
nary times,nor change anything in this
respect.
Dove at Bayonne, 20/A August, 1815.
I he Gen. Count Cit Auvicst Dk Blot.
PROCLAMATION OF LOUIS XVIII.
LOUIS, by the grace of Cod King of
J'ranre and Navarre. To all whom these
fires nts shall come, greeting ; J
We learn, w th sorrow, that in the sou
thern departments, several of our subjects
have been lately guilty of the greatest ex
cesses rfnd that, under pretence of bein'.
tli ■ ministers of justice, they have gratified
private revenge, and have’shed the blood
of some of my subjects, even since our au
)i rity has been universally re-established
Und w cognized in the whole extent of our
kingdom.
Ce rt inly, great crimes and infamous
treasons have b.en committed ; which have
th.own 1 ran e into an nliyssof cvilt. .Some
atrocious ,.ev».- u'.iuu-. have hi eri exercised
against those of our f.ithful sul jects, wno,
following the banners of .ur beloved Ne
phew, have attempted to save Fi ance hr
their courageous exertions ; but the pun
ishm.nt cf these dimes b longs to the na
tion only', and should Ik* solemn and regu
lar ; the guilty should cnly be subject to,
and suffer by, the law ; and not stiff, r
through private enm.ty. It would be as
offence to justice, and it would hr perp.-tu
ating discord and d.Spider, and mignt sub
vert ali social orde -, if anyone was allow
ed to be both judge and executioner, for
offences they mnv have r -c* ived them
selves, or even f r th se that may h ie
been committ cl ag i istour owu person.—
Gut intentions and orders, nave sufficient
ly sh .■*wn, that examples should be mnic
of the auth rs of th se evils ; and that tlic
indulg. nc • which has been sh wn t > these
that have, been acting thn-ugli mistaken
etrors, wilt not be extended t., tlu.se whose
crimes are fully proved. Web pc that
•lie authors of the abominab’e attempts to
ant e p te the exeruti >n of the iav s, ■ nd of
o-.ir ordinances, have already ceased their
d ings. If ttiey were to continue, it w u d
be an insult, not only, to the nation, but a*
gainst us, and whatever regret we m gtit
fiel, in rts nting it, nothin. sh II prevent
us from punishing the aut.n.rs of sirli '
crimes Our worthy Neplu w, the Duke
de Ar.goultme, is forever conmocd with
the ^cntimiMits of ove and demotion, mani
fc t (1 throughout our souther, province s ;
and wh;;, by lus skillful management, attjl
com-, li dory dispos'd on, li s pr. served them
f. om the evils of inv isi n, should now be
our organ to save them frem the misfor
tunes ot civil discords ; and vvdl punish
and repress any abuses made, either in our
r»*. rvw. I. .. \T _ I I . . •
.. *»• me iioijic smii*
merits, which unite the inhabitants f the
southern departments to the Dck?, will
not be weakened by the unwarrantable
conduct of a few men, actuat- dby venge
ance, and a spirit of disorder. It is with a
well-founded opinion of the majority, tint
we have -recommended and ordered, our
ministers and magistrates, to enforce the
execution of the laws, and not to permit
any violat'un of them in any case whg.te
ver ; being well convinced, that our voice
w.ll be listened to with due attention, }fl a
Country where wc have i curved so many
proofs of faithfulness an.fl affection.
Uiven at Paris, on the 1st ot Sept. 1S15,
and of oar reign the twenty first.
r (!2!PMrcl)» < -LOUIS.
By tuc A.oj*—Pasquirh.
F.rtwcl of a letter from,, iurctui>:\ holme in For*
(leuu.r to thru- correir/H) ’nient in llus city, dated
September f.. 3’
" An increase in the il man 1 and price s of fkit
ton have ( ken place since your* was *old ; but this
exni,rrmv t ••. rot keeping if |0: g..r on lian-l,
f1""' ri • nml demand iscmiAuod ib.,d trv hi iv<
ly In ..ijK-rmr qualities. One humhe.l hales mueri
or t»yours were sold only tlir. e .lavs «go, nt lOOf.
»»the «nme time (!,.,» I sold the erg., ofthe l,rig
i iter,lately armed from rour port, at f 182 SO.
I he prices may now be i,u ,! „l Ir,j to in:, lor L>
Mml, ami from t. 200 to -10for K. a-lslan.l. 0,:r
ei.orc imiHM taUma during the spring ami summer,
n mounted to I /, ,10 l>sirs, of which l;.,.417 have
heen vtl.l. Our present stm-k is consequently very
■mall, and our manufacturer* in the „:5,.rior ;,re
very 'enntily supplied. )f „.,r ,,P .-nr. ,,r;r<.. tho
rom.n-rinccof which, I think, may he depended
opoo, and th<: benefit <o l,„ derived mi the e*.
change •* ,lh Kngland, *ljo*M off r j on a more *1
vMitNgewia mode of remittance than by direct thip'
nienllo Liverpool, I advice yorr shipping two-tjiW*