hMid ncrtt entered into a conspiracy with New Hami-siiim: Luoisi ati ur TO Till' Fr I.l THP.
live other trarcrtcrs.or comrniunl the crimo 1 Wednesday oflaitwotk was list d upon Dr. EtnitliiliK' E'ntvilt Iarc.
with which ho was charecd. lie had now oilhc day of adjournment Ul course no r iicmia or iupivie i various Am.r.
New Goods.
IH'UT .V MASON hating made htjr a.l
II
fnf Kyrie. arrived at notion on ibe IMh. ci,nnin of hands nmonen lU junir-r lir
. V 1 o clocV She left Liverpool It.c -1th nnj '.,, H0 or ,hrcc ,jlnC3 repeated, the
.,..'.. end brings us Liverpool papers j juJSc did not interfere, although evidently
iV morninsj of that day. ( j displeased.
Wo arc indebted to Wiltner & Smith's , Vl0Trnvcrscrs imtnrdiMrly lurrcndcrcd
jiropcan I urns, nuu na.ira '''' l ;nln .,, rllModv oftho SlCfltl.
American Neas letter, for ourcstrneli.
The Cotton Market remains somewhat on
low pressure principle. Husincss gencr
Jlv is pood.
The Ilibernia steam ship, Captain Jnd
l.ins. arrived at Liverpool, on the afternoon
of Tuesday, ihcVJO iiIl nftox a capifil pass
use from Halifax of nine days.
bwitzcriana has nccnir.o sccncoinsnori, , Jhl'orai rtlhle Countrymen-Tho ten
lllU'li;il auilll'WHUl ruiiuinaij vi'ii ..i
The debatts in Parli.unctit upon Sir Hob
rrt I'ecl's new currency project have been
of a highly interesting description.
Tho vintage of the totilhcrn part of
France docs not promise so well this year as
last. In many places the old vines have
been killed ofTbytho severity of the past
winter.
The nccounts from India spcnlr of a re
markable hail storm at Sukknr in the Scin
or, accompanied by a hurricane, which
prostrated every thing in its path.
Murders continue to be alarmingly frc
(nrnt in I'aris. The bodies oftwo munici
pal guards were taken out of the Seine
near the H ridge of the Invalidcs, a few days
njo, with marks which left no doubt that
ihfV had hern murdered. Eight others
had previously perished in the same myste
rious manner.
The French government and people np
pear to be wide awake on tho subject of
railroads.
The subject of the Annexation of Texas
continued tu be a piolific theme of discussion
in tho English papers. Some of them
havo watted n good deal of indignation up
on it
The general state of the English crops is
flood, though somo ol tho better agricultural
districts havo suffered from drought.
The schism among iho Jews at Frank
fort and other places had become exceeding
ly violent and bitter.
In Portugal, Italy, &c. matters have be
come tolerably quiet.
So great has been tho rago for guano
manure in England, that largo quantities of
a spurious anil worthless nrticle,rnaJD to re
semble guano, havo been manufactured and
soli in Liverpool. Tho English farmers
nro very indignant at the cheat.
Meetings in support of the factory bill
now before parliament continue to bo held
in the various manufacturing towns of En
gland and Scotland.
The twelve experimental guns brigs for
tho British navy aro represented to bo beau
tiful specimens of naval architecture.
Accunts from Belgrade state that CO per
sons had been publicly executed for j artici
paling in tho late insurrection in Servia; a
innng them tho ex-minister Rujcwitsch.
nearly GOO others had been doomed to ban
ishment for the same offence.
Tho Circassians aro strainingovcry nerve
lo resist tho Kussian invasion, but it is
feared that the independence of these noble
tnnuntainccis is neatly at an end.
Thirty seven Jewish marriages were re
cently celebrated at ouo time, at the syna
gogue in Leadenhall street London.
Spain is comparatively tranquil, with the
rxception of another anticipated explosion
in expectation. Some of the refugees who
had quilled the place assigned thctn in
France, havo bcrn arrested at Havonnc. but
it is uncertain whether any thing vvill be
dono with them.
Tho Hebeccaitcs in Wales have made
some further demonstrations against tho
toll-gates ; just enough to keep the govern
ment uneasy and tho people unquiet
Till: STATE rnoSECDTION SUNTASCK
vroN the TrtAVKRSEiis. Tho Court at
Dublin was crowded on Friday to hear the
decision of tho Judges on the new trial mo
tion, and in anticipation of scntance being
passed on tho repeal agitators. Tho trav
ersers having been called on.
,Mr. Justice Perin read his judgment,
which was that Mr. O'Connell and Father
Tiernev wcro entitled to a new trial, there
being rio evidence whatever agnina the lat
ter. Mr Justice Crampton decided that Fath
er Tiemey alone as entitled to a new trial,
and that llie verdict should stand as regard
cd all the other traversers.
Mr O'Connell and tho other travelers
have not only been sentenced but nrc in pris
on, very much to tho astonishment, nlarm
nud indignation of that numerous body in
England, ns well as in Ireland, who have
pinned their political faith to the slecvo of
tho Liberator, or who look upon his pro
ceedings, in reference lo tho repeal question,
r.s calculated to nssist their own views of re
moving the civil, political and religious in
stitutions of the mother country.
Motion in Ahrkst or Jodgmknt.
Sir Colman O'Loghlen said that the
lo nrnend the posteei having oeen
ol, he had to move on tho part ol
users in the arrett of iudunitnt.
. . .. ... i . 7 mm.
.iQ.iyunm.ptcu, he trustee, tneir ion- j - n nnv -eU, "... Ice.:n
Tim Iteneal Commillco have issued on
Addrrrs to the people of Ireland on the sub
iect of the imnnsonmcnt of O'Connell, &c .
LrnpeeliiiifT them to ncrsevcre in defence of
their rights, but not to appeal lo force.
Annnr.i.1 or O'CoNNKM. to Tin: ri:o
pi.r. or IiiEi-AXn itaci: and ui'inT.
People oj Ireland Irllotc Countrymen
litloved Ftllote Countrymen Tho sen
tence is passed. But there is another ap
peal from that sentence. Tho appeal lies
in the House of Lords. I solemnly pledge
myself lo bring an appeal against that sen
tence, and I assure you there is every pros
pect that it w ill be received. Peace then,
and quut. Let there not bo one particle of
I iot, tumult, or violence. This is the cri
sis in which it will bo shown whether Ihu
people of Ireland will obey me or not.
Any peison who violates the lrnv.or is guil
ty of any violence, insult, or injury to per
son or property, violates my command, and
shows iiimselfan enemy to me, and a bitter
enemy lo Ireland.
Tim neonlc of Ireland the sober. steady,
honest, religious people of Ireland have
hi'.hcrto obeyed my commands and kept
ntiim. Let every uian stay at home. Let
tho woman and children stay at home. Do
not crowd the streets, and in pailicular let
no man npproach the precincts of tho Four
Conrls.
Now people of Dublin, nnd people of
Ireland generally, 1 shall know, whether
you love and respect mo or not. Show
ycftir love and regard for me. by your obe
dience to tho law your peaceable conduct,
and the total avoidance of any riot or vio
lence. Pkack, onnr.li, quiut, tranquility.
Preserve the peace, and tho Repeal cause
will necessarily bo triumphant. Peace
and quiet I ask for in my name, and as
vou reirard me. Peace and quiet I usk for
in the name of Ireland, and you lovo
your native land. PeaccjuUt, order,l call
for tm.'Jor the c-uicmn sanction of religion.
I conjure you lo observe quiet, and I ask it
in the adorable name oftho ever-living God.
Gratify me nnd your friends by you being
quiet nnd peaceable.
Tho enemies of Irolind would bo de
lighted at you violating tho peace, or being
guilty of any disorder.
Disappoint them gratify and delight by
peace, order, and quiet.
Your faithful friend.
DANIEL O'CONNELL.
Corn Exchange rooms,29th May, 18M
Gunner.. A secret society has been dis
covered in Athens. It is called the "Grand
Brotherhood," clocsly resembling the broth
erhood of the Illuminati; the members be
ing sworn to secrecy nnd implicit obedience.
Tho association is mostly attributed to Iho
Nappist or Russian party.
Tummy, A letter from Constantinople
says that the state of Albania becomes dai
ly more and more alarming. The whole
nrovinco is in a state of revolt, nnd bodies
of the insurgents scour all parts oftho coun
try, committing the most frightful excesses.
By the last account the town of Skotia was
closely blockaded by an army of 15.000
Albaina.
Visit or the Esirnnott of Russia to
England, Tho Emperor of Russia and
suite nrrived nt Woolwich late on Saturday
evening, and immediately departed Tor Lon'
don. On Sunday morning Prince Albori
visited tho Emneror attho Russian Embas
sy,and returned with Sir Robbcrt Peer after
divine service. The Emperor then ac
companied them to Buckingham Palace,
on a visit to tho Queen. Afterwards he
visited tho Queen Da wager and tho other
branches of the Royal Family
Tho appearance of the Emperor of Rus
sia, in London, most unexpectedly, has
started the Quidnuncs and tho sight gazers,
Ho has travelled with amazing speed since
leaving his own capital.stopping only a few
hours nn his route to visit thccrowned head
of Prussia and Holland, anxious, no doubt
to bring the intelligence of his own arrival
in England.
" """- " - , '-m IMU1S.1 niMIOUl H.PUli
bwn rrfirroda petition from Now Ipswich r&IMS uiMtomtmt has born examined !v
for prohibiting thf use of our jam for mf u Ir Mit. Hodgeta. Franei and (!n-
""". .cw uavrr. nnu .Miuaieiuvn,L.onn.,
and ha, obtained for lUelf their favorable
toMitnuiiy,
r.r.. r.nt.v ei.
I'r Hlbard would trfer ttmso persons lm
whh for information retamc to tho utility of
the Lice to tho following person who have
-um me m lesic... uamn iirsmor. i-:n .
incatccration of slaves. It was decided by
a vote 200 to 25 that tho petitioners have
lenvc to withdraw. (Clarcmonl Eagle.
IOAn nngcl without any money is not
thought half so much-of now o days as a
devil with n bag full of guineas.
The Rutland County Tcmperhnre soci
ety will hold its annual meeting at Rutland
on tho 10th day of July next at ten o'clock
forenoon
Rev. Mr. Pierpoint of Boston, is expect
ed lo bo present and address me inecin.
three o'clock. P. M.
All arc invited to alten.l
William Paoi
C. Sl'ENCEIt
Z. Mown.
1:11.1.
1
at
Ex. Committee.
The fallowing ceitifiote li from l.eti W. Sil'17
Ecj well known in Itoehmti-r nml wcnlcrn New
Yolk lis a merchinl and auctioneer Tor tde lait twelve
or fiftcco year, tin dim.uc li 11 proveit no olwtin
Me tli.il ho tin luen compelled to ipeml two win
ttri ptlur to tho lait.ln tlm "Sunny South," in I'lor
ida, Hut tl.e lilt nlntc ho lias been able Hi rpeni
at home, at lilt nwn ilwrt ttatemcul will oipl.iin
The Itnchettrr Daily ldtcrtiicr, on publiilnnj Sir.
Sibley atalemcnH rctiurKa
Conlstllli
vesting, trimming of ceiy Klnil in rse,
numlin poods of nil dexliablo hiylfs, laen
goods, n laru oIih k of hiislcry nl glnvrs.
domestic pnxit of all kin.lv; tunbiellaa; par
asols, sun shades, auimner i-lolht, bomlw
zincs, alp3cc.iv muiislin do lane,bat7.orinos,
baloiinu muslins, printed lawn-, l'drilans,
M.awls, Ac., tie.; also Cloth dps napped
Hats.
7, . I CI 11. km ... . T ... nr.A
p . . .. ' l IHUlf MHO OICf. I llf HI-IIIIH'imiHJ ill"!
ll.iinouth: llenrv lirov. .MiHdlnlnn Ar..i-...i r... .... -it i i. r
Kaniscy, I'iltsf'jrd i l'ul hitcoinbe, Stock- came ami fino boots nnd show. A No kid
V-i" s",: 1,fn!,l Itot. Orvtcll; II. fStaveaa J work of all descriptions, made in llie bent
t-iq .tiraijvillo.N "l ; David I haver. Ihinp- minncrand ofiho very best matcrwlt. Thay
ion; b. U. . Clark, Uarandon Springs ; I ,aVn now on band 600 prs InditM l.id slips,
Josepl, Cornish, P.tufor.l ; Danlol Kolly, walkinj and biibkin shoes and slips, locother
- ...... , , ...r.w i , iiutiutiu , wm n uruo nsnorimoni o in istvs nnil t i-
t ir. it. f.i. r ii ... ...
.ii.ro, i v ivi I , urweii ; , iron' shoos and Uaitet.i. All t id n,L
' Joha
I'f. JiiIiiij. and John Oonahl. Kso . Hrnndon :
Samuol Hibard, llv , H. Ilethol , besides a
great many moro which wo would bo glad to
add lo ihe list only for want of room.
8V.MPTO.MH.
The Lace is applieablu for those who havo
the wliuln or a part of the following svmp
toais : Weeding at tho Lungs, Cmip,h, Tight
ness at tho Chest, Palpitation ol tho Heart,
Hyspepla, Sensation of gonct.css or sinking
at tho pit oftho Stomach, disposition to bond
forward, pain in ono or both sides, which aru
cenurally supposud to bo J.ivcr Complaint,
but which are only the result of tho gravita
tion of that organ, Tenderness- of iho Abdo-
mon, a sensation ol dragging in tho groins,
i.
made especially for retailing-, nnd w w ill
warrant any shoes wo sell, to lie wtitlti to
tho purchaser from 10 to 60 per rent more
than any other kid work of tho s.imo l.hnl
sold in Iho county. We. mi for liomo iiiaiiu-
factures, and ask the patronage of the public
to this branch of nor businesn.
.Mm6c. -300,001) heart and common spruen
shingles, common xpruco inch board, hem
lock lath and lining hall inch boatds, (hi. inn
inch plank, do. 3 by I and 1 by I scantling
and juice, spruce clapboards, hemlock tm h
boards. Timber furnished on slunl notiti
and frames erected ifde&ircd.
1000 cedar pnUofgood quality.
ouoo iigiits oi n uy o ana 7 ny nine win
WC WOUIU ri'fprcilUliy rail Ml" mtriilKill ul mil , I .1 ,l. ..... . , ,, . . .
rcadera to the tetiimnny uv Mr. I.. II'. Sihlcv. ..flhc V, P V I. uow sasn, Heavier, sirongcr anu neiiet mill
.vrll-kmin firm of Sibley iVSnrmtnni. Auctioneer I stoop very carelully, lain m the Hack and any to ho found hero, nnd what i or cq.til
ol ihu city Kocnrsier aiaren i, iuij. cuiucse, j jiu aim iiumnnoss m mo Importance, will be mild cheapor.
nave uruji uiii" n ini;, a ii.jib.iiii ui iiu ..iiL-i - i ijioius, uaii uouss, x lour nilul0. lilCi anU
rj (or Iho latl three liiollllu, and find rnhiideralile
relif to my ciimplalnt tfronchitia, with whirli I
have been afflicted lor tho Inst four years. 1 have
no doubt it will proro beneficial ill lint complaint,
snd dIio in all lltcclioini ol'lhocliefl nnd liter
I.. V. SlUl.EY.
HIAKIIIHI)
In Middletown May 27th by tho Rev.
Mr. Clapp of Tintnouth, Mr. Moses II.
Warrcnof Conway, Ms. to Miss Philindia
Williams of Tinmouth.
In Shrewsbury June 23d, by Rev. Jas.
Hudson, Thomas J. Knight to Miss Adalino
Shippee.
Prolapsus. The nervous svstem is diseased
great gloom, desponding and weeping not
knowinc why herself,
Dr. Hibard having purchased tho right
for tho County of Rutland, will endeavor to
keep n sufficient assetln-nt on hand for all
wlio will favor him with a call, from any dis
tance. JIo can forward them to any part of
the Stale, or elsewhere. Those wisliins them
A general assortment of Stono nnJ I'arth-
enware; cotton yarn, black and w-hilo wad
ding, cotton batts, India rubber hoes; Tar
by the barrel or gallon; cast iton (scrapers,
sidehill and common plough corn ploughs,
Kentucky lille powder.
A general assortment of ftcsh Drugs and
Medicines.
Paxnts. Linseed oil. 600 lbs. sunoiiur
quality white lead, red lead, Venetian ind,
Tmi I tu: rt.il M.di ... ' I I '
np.IF.KK ar famhiM btih brvrliiy i. .
-u. tei;t?rto1 rthin ua, nh w! ch ten
her! s ht adinuv, and vti wb' lev !
powr.
All dia i prodacivl In i .e iismn
of tl.p blond. Tl. llrooi!ii'i I' s trn
lire cnus of ill dlrnsos l v mr tfttia i.
bloixl, tlirs aia t'.r.-i f.tr p.;-l , nl'mrl i .
vernal; ihy ar mild in thru ij r it.ona. . 1
noter (ailing in their hreriirml cluiis.
ltomrinber That each ln ol iln- rjan.-i;
has uH)ii It tbie mpvrijlii UVt 'I -.i i , ,
label ha two signnititrs of h. Ilenpr . ,
Drandrath upon it. That il.nn mM b i
oneli Iwix three Mgnniurc, thus . I'r. 1.. ,
ndn Ilraiidrrth, M U. And thiee m -nniu . .
thus . Ucnjaniin Uraiidreili.
Also
DR. UIJANDRTJTH'S KXTP.RXA!
RliMUDV OK LLM.MKNT,
which by ils oMrnnrdioaiy powirs abU,i
p.i.n or surei.css . thus sprain, i !l" win"-,
wliile swolllngti, tlH'unmlir pa.us, n t.t'.
stillness in tho JninlK, liltimra, Unno.i
hntdnriss, still neik. snro thro.it, cioup. i
tractions nf thn nmacle. srorft'lons rnlir
tncnts, lmJcr I'tel, and ci'.v ('caciinlion '
injury titToctinar. the inioriur of tho In .
frame, nro cured ur ereaitv irllovnd, l I
ncver-lo bo sulliclonily c Mulled repiu.lv.
Tho flillowing nr lUo oitly nuili.n,-. '
AgoiitK for tho sln ol tho iho llran irmli l'i . ,
and l.lni.nent in Itntlninl ('(unity
W. K. C. .Stoddard, ir.l,.y A l!ni!e. 1;
land ; Hjtt licok ft Morgan, West Hnili
C. ). Walker. Itcnsim ; S. H. Arm-.'.:i
Woslhavon; t!or!win .!.,, i,,,, irt( ,
itllawkius. ('Mtleton; W'ldnid ,V I'.:, i,
rmrhaven; V. Chhmibi, a (., (trwrll . 1
Huckmasicr, Ihuk.n'aster A (.'o. fc,Uowl.
S. Townseml VVn .Itnpfb i J ; l.i,haru, Vmi .
Co. Soulh Vallijifttui.l; . J. Hocora. V.iu
Unroupli; Win-dun , JSvalliw, Put jut , li
SMmonds, 1'itisford ; Ira Uquon, Warr. i.
llliss, lJiandon; Iru lliupji.iin, tudburv .
W Sawyer, Tinmiioili, tj. C. Hrucn Mi,
town ;.!.(). Kirdmnlvtn, Wot I'uulunn ,
II. N. lladlev A Co. Wells. to. I
scat, will send a description oftho size, .fee, ! French yellow, chrome yellow, Prendi green
3133 D.
Ill Tinmouth May 25th Mr. Thomas
Rogers aged S.'i years.
Juno 13 Samuel Iloadlyaged 13 years
He was riding horse nnd engaged in plough-
ins corn, when the animal toolf iright and
ran. Ilo was thrown ofTand ihe iioint of
tho ploughshare entered hisside,illing him
at once.
June. 18th Mrs. Philips aged about 84
she was found dead in her bed.
In Crown Point N. Y. 7th instant Phin-
cas Smith aged 71 years. Printers in wes
tern N. Y. arc requested, &c.
Wkaltii. Too many persons,
in
all
thn relations throunh life, look unoil wealth
as the onlv true standard of merit, and will
pats by the cottage of the intelligent and vir
tuous: associate with ihe icnorant nabob
in his castle, reared unon fraud and op
nreseion. Their standard may suit their
present condition. But, if it does not prove
their own ruin, it surely will that of their
children. Their riches may fly with ihe
wind in a moment and then where is their
and forward tho price of one, (SIO), free from
expense to him, and they can have the direc
tions so plain, that any person can anply
iljjin. The Subscriber ;JS) j ,js cxlcyjvo
ctrcnlc praciico in Vcimonl, for tho last eight
vcr.rs, seen Iho absolute want of this mochaui.
cbl application with the " Reformed Practice"
iji meet tho wants of the many pressing cases
vcrdigriso, l'rusiau blue, lithcrege, limber.
rotten stone, tcne iloscna, blue smalt, gold
leaf, glue, lamp black, rotten stone, potuice
stone.
lhjc Stuffs. Ground logwood, camwood,
fustic, nicaragua, alum, copperas, blue vilrnl,
oil vilrol, sugar lead, cochineal, aquafortis,
nulgalls, annatto, extract ol logwood, inrlaiic
Haying Tools.
AMSON'S Patent and Common Scythe
Snathes.
FarwcU's cast steel and common Scythes.
Taft's cast steel, German siccl, and steel
back do.
Marches steel back and common do.
Cradle Scythes.
Datchellor's patent cast steel Hayforks, and
other.
Quincbog, Indian Pond, Sexton's Hiver and
Cuininington ocytho stones.
Uakes in great variety.
The above articles will ho sold much below
former prices. HURT & MASOX.
Kutlund, Juno 27, 1811.
r which the Lace is applicable ; and in can- acid, madder, indigo, red tartar, white tartar,
ur and truth, lools as though too much 1 cum scnegal, &c.
p-aiso and gratitude could w be bestowed Jlutlanu, Juno 13, 1811. 25-27
ji Dr. ilanning for his continual labors for a j :: ; j '
2"nr Auction Lana iur sil-.
o.u.. ...v.u. u.u I'l.J oiu.t.i...., Jiiiii;S, Kll .ip
icable, and affording so immediate and per-1 (' much oftho following desciibed pio,
; ancur relief to ihoso cases for which it is ! fS erty as shall bo necessary to pay a School
d'signod. Tho undersigned has applied over lax assessed against ihe owncrMhciiinf up.
f.ny of tho instrumunis, and not more than on ll'o Grand list of 1811, together with all
lor 6 have wished lo return them: which ho I legal costs and charges will bo sold at
dinks speaks stronger than words in praise Public Auction at or nuar said premises on
f tho instrument. It is notnecessarv to add i iho 30th day of July next, at ono o'clock, p.
m. hald property is described anil bounded
as follows to wit : Situa'cd in Iho Village of
Fniihavcn, and set in tho tax hill to lleaman,
Gibson, Hooker, Ilawlcy, Hamilton, ami
llank of Rutland, it is bounded north by
lands owned by ltiehard SutlilT, cast by binds
of Benjamin IF. Gilbert, south by laniU of
Jonathan Athcrlon and west by Ihe tho high
way loadlnjr from Fairbavcn to Casllelon,
JOSIAH P. WILLAUD, Colluitr.
Fairbavcn, Juno 13. 181 1. ay Hi
Waggons.
Lum-
"OURT & iVASON A ono horse
JL ber Waecon, entirely now, and has
never been used. Also one second hand,
and but
sold at a
Also,
Ono Chaise and Harness.
Rutland, Juno 27, 1811.
ibrtificatcs now, as tho references will be a
sniicieni guarantee 10 inu tiuunc lor llicir
aility.
Mils. r.noNwmi's cnnTincATK.
This may certify, that in tho month of No
vnber, 1810, 1 wus confined to tho bod with
severo inilamation of the right hip. Ii con
lilued along with almost continual pain and
sometimes agony, till the lib of July follow
ire, when Dr. Sheldon, my then physician,
laiced it, anil between aquart and three pints
ofmalter discharged, and Dr. S. said I could
m live through tho operation ; but I felt im
mdiately relieved, and it seemed to bo bettor
til September, when it was lanced again,
aid scarcely any matter was discharged, and
ittljd not close up as before, but deepened
ail discharged till it could be probed thrco
orifoiir inches. My eoneral health all this
tine declining, and my physician and his
, . . ,, lllli (Jlllll Udl Ul tfllll III..! Ul lIIU II I IIH It Ui
crjnsei sa u 10 my menu tnai t coma no yaij proporly if desciibed and hounded
Iltt llllt f dlwivl 1 1 in ft lint I'rAtMrlAn nn Arflnfftil I ... 1 . n. .......
Auction Land for sale.
QO much of tho following described prop
k3 erty, as shall bo necessary lo pay a
School tax assessed against tho owners there
of upon tho Grand List of 1811 together with
all legal costs and charges, will Lo sold al
Public Auction at or near said premises, on
tho 30th day ol July next at
lie but a short limo ; but Providence ordered .
otiorwiso. In May, 1812, I sent for Dr.
ilbard, who bad just moved into Huiland
aij who practised on iho HcroKMur) Svstkm,
aliouch I had crcat opposition from Dr.
Slilden and his friends. I had no cause to
uii useu. jiiso line auuiinu niiou,i - ,
little worn ; both of which will bo'?1 lllng.I)r, H-who ins"tutc,i ,n sl'"
great bargain for purchasers. ,,n W0', lndeed, : fot. ""7 Pe
Aisn ' soil began to mend, and the Fistulous Ab-
roswas cured in a few months. 1 am now
tvej and I give Dr. Hibard Ue entire credit
of ravine mv life bv his scientific mode of
jdociiring, let interested physicians say what
the! will to the contrary.
? KMILY LKONAHD.
Jutland, May 1, 181-1.
1'ho undersigned feels thankful for the
liberal patronaoo of bis friends for the past
h-iii'p ji. m a m- ir. i., ,...i i)...!..f two years in Rutland and its vicinity, and lias
p utvi ii ni.iuuii unci uiiiium Jiwaiiii . r 1 e
X and fiOO lbs, Alum, which they will sell c.a"sct0 PrCM ("TWard ,?.,ho1 (
at Now York prices, with the addition il W0" cn P"int combined slanders
Artificial Flowers.
"RURT ij- MASON have just received 10
cases Artificial Flowers. For sale by
the case at New York prices. j
Rutland, June 27, 1811. I
as follows to wit : Situated in tho Village of
l'alrheven, and set in the list and ux-bill to
lleaman. Gibson, Hooker, Hawdcy, Hamilton
and Rank of Rutland ; it is bounded, tiurih
by lands owned bv Iliehard SutlilT, oast by
land3 of llenjamin F. Gilbert, south by lands
of Jona. Athorton,and west by tho highway
leading from Fnlrbavon to Casllelon,
UUYAIj ISUIjMJUK, Collector.
Fairbavcn, Juno 13. 1811. iil:''7
FrMcht.
Rutland, June :
, 1811.
ISTeu' Arrival.
M'Me, tePP?uloanSvf ' 'TV'cT T fr
v,n ii,.i,J t;hI v-,,irr i . !lt 'ho Clarendon Springs; tho rest of th
" J1 f 1Tk "'. L Z I e,t l lmo bou. heme, ,o itleinJ by nigh, and da;
Guard, The Thrco States, King & Servan',
Rocky Island, Promising and Performing,
seltV, D'Aubigne's History of the Reforn
linn in 3 vols., Ihe Voice ol the Church, w
D'A.ubi2no,Thc Voicoof Antirjuity, by D'AL
bigne. Great Cities, by John 'lodd, Ay Sayi
our, Imitation of Christ, Antioch, K van's
and persecutors of the Faculty. " Truth is
powerful and will prevail" and all tho under
signed wants, in this war of Doctors, is to
havo a fair and open field with his competi
tors, and no fear nf the result. Mondays and
ruosdays of each week will bo days to at-
s
the
day
to all diseases both Acuta and Chronic.
J. 1). 1I1I513ARD.
Rutland, June 7, 1815. 30
BOKriM CLOTE3
AND
MSttri' tlRill 1 ouch.
ft.
mE2W a'FfiHSK HEW FEItU
imiNsai.iD"&"imoTHEH?,
Saccesaois lo
PANG11URN & IlilLNSMAlll,
IIUIII.IMirON, VT.,
A HI'' Pepiiod lo .,(;llat Iho Jowejl R0V ..1
J.A. or Now York prices, at. wholpualoor .
tail, Watciirb, Clocks, JewaLnv, (!nlv.
bii.vtii, PLAri-.n, ItairAMA and oiliei Mc;.
Goods, Go.d 'I'hirnbles, SpecUclef, C:r ,
liings, Pins, llrooches, and all Goods in 1
line; (and beside, tti nKr le. ii..iin ,
'.'O.,;, (ya aio l,Bc,rig n groat 1 ,1. i"' v '
Goods at whiles do, lo SUttply peddli rs .1 1
olheis lo tell again, and I. im ilo c.ili , . .
orilois from ubioad, assuring olir cusIhuh
that thoy will find iho Goods low, and ol tl.
quality thoy aro sold for.
Wo import Goods, or buy thorn wbcicvi r
wo can get them to advnntago, and shall st ,1
so ibat we can give cuilomers sali.sf.ieliwii.
Ordors from a distance ntiutidod to prim;,''
ly, nnd a3 good bargains given, lo my lb-lr-.ast
as by personal application. Clin k i m
Watches by llm box or single We in -arients
for Iho Diamond pointed Gold Pen-.,
Flv Nots for horses, nud Morrison's, Pill .
We have Wtllow Ware, Comit, liiuJ,,-.
Jjuuic;;ccpuix Article, Uuzors and otlirr Cm
hry. Communion Furniture, I'isLwg Tart.tr,
JlaiUls, Stt'cf;, tScarfs, Collars, tiusjuiidors,
i''c. try
Wo havo Drcstin Cases; Work lh'-f.
Musical instruments,' Has and Double 11 is.
Viols, Melodious, and most binaller iu.-.tru-mollis
nnd Mubical MiTclinndiiie.
Jn short, w'o would just say that wo haic
a very cxinnsivo arid varied ns.-otlineni !
Amorlran. Kfiahsh, German and 1'aiis I'A.
CY ARTICJ,lSy, ami wo aru fully tiv. n
that tho way to sell thorn ii to put tlicm s'i
low that Hasten or. New Yoik will not l,o .1
moro favorable place to bulhem. Wu h .
fur ca3h, and boll for cash. Jur (ij..om
can buy as cheap horo aslnt any other .t.n ,
If any one chooses to send us tho cash for
Gold or Silver Wair h. from a distance, i
any oilier niiicle, and b-nvo tho soleciion . 1
us, ihey shall have an article worth llit mo.
sent, and jf it does not suit It can bo cxcl.au
cd. Our Silver Spoons aru mado 111 o.
own shop. iSSgii
Particular altentlonpald, to fino Watdi ic
pairing. HRIXSMAID & IIROTIIKR.S,
21:35 Hutlington, Vermont.
1: the subscribers, being nppointed by
tho Hon. Probate oartiorinouisirici
ofFairhaven.coniinissioners to receive, ex
History of all Christian Sects, Shaicspear atine ar)d adjust all claims and demands of
i.iusiraieo, 11111 g.u nusMa uinoiug. jiiih m ; persons against llie esiato 01
Prayer, Parker's Invitation to Happiness,
Cyrus Urates late of Fairhaven.
R. F.WIIITK
No. 0. Morton nicsCk, Milk St., Iloslan,
TM PORTS and keep constantly for sale an
M extensive assortment of Dutch Jklltng
Cloths oftho following patterns, viz, Auihoi,
Arms of Ilarlen, Uird of Paradise nnd Maple.
From long cxpcricnco in the manufacture and
sale of this article, tho dadvertiser is onnblo
to furniih Millers with mure perfect and du
rable cloihn, and at lower prices than they
can be obtained in tho Uni'-'i -Slates.
ALSO: FRENCH UVUll MILL .STONES,
of all sizes inan")aclurcd at Iho Massachu
setts State lVsom
March 5 ,1811. 0 mis Gmns-1 1
l 1)11. Ji. SlUlIlMAlS'tt
Vegetable Catliolicon.
An unerring rcmedy.and known to bo such
lor the following diseases viz :
All diseases of the lungs which causo ob
structions of tho Name; such roughs, cold,
catarih, bronchitis, and even cookuitipiion,
in the premonitory or forming siuys. Also
9 M'hnt fh nws! lien nc" ecteU UV I ' . .. ,., r.f.. mm,,. . . J , 111 mt ureuiunuurr ur iu
u ViT ::;:::;. ,, lni,,,la h those ,yZmJllT l 1 'r:. .' " "AT ' V. rj ,,,3a,ua's,r.,cl' represcn.eu insoi- eniargernents of tho spleen, in the dliTtrent
men uiu u.-.-una.v- ... ---j -v i jjciiuvur, lyuuiiuri in awwwi 'vem.anu aisoa l c a msanu uemanus exnio- ,,,,Q. ,i i , i.or,ni,
Lead A(juedw(;ts.
rjpiIL subscriber, having taken of V. V, .
.a. Whltimv, Ihe Stock M.tchinorv'. A.'-. ( r
iho inariufjeli re of Lead Plpo. Ac., w ill i o .
tinuo Iho business, ar.U?ual,alCnstlo!on Mill".
in an us various uranchus. Lead l'ipo o
supoiior ((iiality of all rht, from half in h I .
men and n ball, constantly on hand. .V ,
Metallic Pumps, of various kinds, aue.re!
lent article, known in point of neatness an
durability to lo orpial to any now in use, m.n
ul'actured and wnrranted.
All ordem in hi. lir.o of buiiness will I
promptly nticndod In, and Pipe in anv ooa-i'.
tits luiniiliod on short iioilcu.
Tho Illoral p nronage hrrrtofnrn recc i
in this line of b.itjiuc-s, iiii!urr Uio s;t' ;-
tier to continue tho "oid-Mauil" at (''
Mills, yt. N. K. WHfTNLY
Cauloton Mills April 10, 1311. U,..
.1 I,., f.n cliMnnr.i! inpri.li' hpcnll?n I ..I. A .1 A ... j 1....ii1. flrtrtn Alwiiinii. :..l :jr....i 1 ... .1.- r '""S"' . ,
,,:. ' w noui iiiuy uwiuii- ...-.-.j . urn;,, n luiumigm, "ui -' .V. . I "Lu 1 " uicrcio, ana six moiiius irum )v ,.nlaroement or lonor : iaund co 11 i i
",0,1" I .u,, ,vnrn noor. Let then those who wish ing. Hannv Hours. Parley's Wit Houghr. tho Is. .)av ))f M,1 ,, bB,n aiiowed iJV 1 V:r.l.,..l . . P. 7 ,i ..." !..:'. "1
.u,sPoscrt i ,,fV seek- it throutrh moral and ! Tho above Hoot aro now oflerl at the i sai( Cour't for tUat nurDOse . 'Vo do there:-' lu.L, ' ,n,i . .V J Z
. U!C . tr.a;'' .ntelleciual. rather than by pecuniary cul-, Publisher's Reta" rices. fore hereby give notice, that we will attend ; uf alI .,. ,rajn evii3 aUen ianl on tt1Cte dilli-
UUl Ueil? 1 . r '-..I .l.-...- . U. SJiUUUJWIU, I frl Inn ImeinpuQ fiT nilr sntrl
z . ml in an i null irnriii i-.iiii I iillii i . - ...w hh4...wuw. wm. "....
I llltlll L.1 1 1 1 w..i , T , ..." . I I L I I i
IIU IIUI1U. . . . . . . ,
ships would give him until Monday morn
rung
Rutland, J"io
This was most strongly opposed by the , Wooi. Mosaic Ulotii.-A new inen- wjy vrtuo
hicf Justice and the XtufrSev General! recently been introduced into London I J) Ilecti
Chief
8hci iir's 8a ic
vduo nf an execution in my hands for
ion, l shall sell at public vendue at
nemi. i v --------y . . , .7 . .
. .... i r ii - i:.. I .. ... n ,.rn is annn in I in , . . MiinriD.u in nil 1-111 npv nn 1110 11111
who contcnuea that Sir C A'r oiiirhlcn 1 ,rum "CI,,,, uuu ua "u ' . . I lno , . ' V """-.
i inirouuccu mio our iiiiL-ntuu uinto, m o ..w-. -- - ,
V ni , . , i ...... i.. r r.irii- .inni. consist nr of rotarv and oilier
appointment at
tho hte dwelling houso nf said deceased in
Fairhaven, on the last Wednesdays of July
and August next, from 0 o'clock a. m. until
5 o'clock p. m. on each of saiJ days.
Wi. C. KirriiEnoE, Aoams Durrotr, Com'rs.
Fairhaven, June 13, 1811. 25:37
A Good Bargain H
.
culties.
Night sweats and all forms of herlic fevpr,
scrofula, In all its various form and in n.ost
cutaneousdisoasej orlboionfTcciing the. skin,
and nearly all forms ol rliop,y aivj many
other of minor iinportanco wbivh 1 forbear
to mention. '
I Finally, this medicine v. a pow crfnl altera-1
live and deobstrucnt ; hence, it follows at; u j
matter of course that all diseases which tond
to obstruct tho natural channels of rircula-
Notiee.
Yin:REAi:,,t,ev my wjfo has 1
tied nu.l liofml wltbKt roihI t-
and iigniiitt ,y conwni, I heioby forbi I
Iiersoi! or ncritoiii Inrljun.u. ...
.""in ikiuv mi iiiji acioui.l iij ,n
dt'. j of her coi.sratsiii'.
Wil FrieM Kiw i ii
Walud atMtllolly tbi 13iiid iy uf June, I
t"
t
y perKo f the! S ' .3 t 1 which ihe brillhncy and variety of colors of sU.ves, ll.!J
" n i nr. i-i ij . i ; iIai. . luuk Ski uvea . wii tui aiutesui uid ini ' . .
grantea. uenin woo. aro o.c.mi-u logciuer ... u,..-, Castleton on tl.e 10th day of July HpnE subscriber oilers lor sale blip o.
mi rtfnrMMiiTT fiffrnnri nnd richness- .... . . .1 y a it? i:,. ri L ; l?t
ci'vtkli. u .n i n & v v. i w i"- ---a - novi i en cm rii h rifivp. niinm m v viavpc - if in inn un vcim m u iu l i tu ...
O'CossKU. To be imp oncd"7or twelve Tl.lC 'nJam!faClUr ? a" 'hc PpCfa(n ' "r "' above Sbt. Clarendon. ISuoem: S. I'Anunt. I "Xry ssd LwiTl S IZZZVuUtZ
iWdar months; to p.ay'a fi" 7' pa nlcd velvet, wilh ihe texture ond lmS , together will, axletrecs, boxes, hollow ware, , RHSS, Uhl" '
n No enter into security t0 ? l?:0i ! qualities of a woven fabric. In the process i-, l.c.. als0 ono Stanley's hoister, sale to TATB OP yr.lt.MONT, ; E ,i "tterej , ' '.f . ff , tiUi . 1 ,indv
hlhir various !,,., (v,n Ui,irpr' Ir.n. in nnmlpinn. nt H'ltncl or tl airlnvfn. (I. y-- tint nl prooim . i i tiuaiiti. iiihv i sure auu oi.uy
nrm vcars iiiniiuii m t, oonr nm u ii"uiiu.n.iui,ni. ii.uiw - . , ,w. ..-w .........
for . Ir o r.00. each. J'wil'ano huc, arc wovc'n in a n.lo several inches , lo o'clock A. M. and nosii ve.
and the fabric is then dirtded into' W. J). COLUl UN, Dept. Sheriii.
Z n bConnell. Job,, Gray, T. Sude. !0"? and l is 5S?. ? p,.., " '
i naitrtt.C. G. Uuliyand T. M. Uav lamina nnu liscu on io inweaioi -
1
Vo be imprisontd for nine calendar momb's: r Bround work, each tl.ee or pile prouu- "M - ,1 Wllfltpfl
lobcimpi. , , c nentep.rat0 picture in Hie wool. Someof, .Ulllh TI lllltCU.
" p??iVn the pea seven ycars-them. , tbcgroupsof flowersproducedbythis proeeu m GIRLS wanted to work ina Cotton
resnecUvtk ia 1,000 and two u. ' exqu.s.uvely beautiful, and are admira-, JfcW Faclory in Massachusetts, to whom
nttes of ouut cacn. , mg rooms. Tho nitempn to copy paintings i. . .!''. ; -,i rrJr
Btcnce having bn . . ana likcneM are comparative '(Situtci, but "ceFt ch as can eojwd jckr.
SffffCoo-elU r'J f ornamental designsfbe mosaic cloth i, " "
.. . i... .,heil to rcn. ' r -- .... -""iHDrivaiicatnucautv liotton. I ran.
court iiuiiieu t t;itictmi, within anu .cr uiu ai- in Ha operation anu never rails to rtlliwve
irietontte:hlily ofJune, 10H. habitual costivenens if persevered in a ufl!-
Pietrnt, Alir.on II arntr, Judgr. ; rinnt lenilh or lime
An InitroineDtin writins piirporlioi: lo be ibo ' ,
l.tt ,li .uiioamcM r Arnold nijg. hte of I ll ,'s Purc.v vegc able, and may be used
llemon, m rmd dnirict. dtcturd, Iriuf pffieoitd any length of time that tho nature uf ihu cae
to nid cclirt for piotnte ty Auai Urzs may require without tiver Inrmtng the con-
ccutor therrin nutd. ) slilulion ill the lihlct degree : Ihcrufore
plven to sl perioral concrrneil, to pper at a e- i
non or rata court tu it Nolrica at Lttirton on tho
STATIC OK VKUMONT. ? JJV. n it
Distriel of Fnirhutou, v. &J im nibc
cdlliHluta prolMU) rouit hii!wri alCasi tti
wiitiin ami for told di'.r:i'. un the 11 !.
of Juno, 1811.
I'resont Almon Wniner, Ju 'i
M. Hollrster, adm.ni'i iinr of the u:
Hartley Hollister, l.i'e ol' I'.iv. lot in ;.r
tro t deceased, a(iph iii! to i.ai.l coi.rt '
cne to ell o niMflinl il.o ri l c
said Jerosed as . ii! i i-. i!,i' un o! f 1 .
O'J, fr tlii! paym nil ol iUe debN ofsaci i
and charge "f niiioim'-lr ". . rfi'rei"
tlie debt naibst ll.a eiti'i' .uirl i o : '
adtnlnistrilion and ansipi.rin nt to ih'
ol (
JAMES EVEUSON.
Slth day nf July nut, lo coateit Ike pruliite ofiiid
will.ilpuljlulilDf thn order llirrn uttl iueeric
nelr, previoui toaid limcot lirrm, m l,o Itut
lind llcralj, newtpifr pnnteJ at t'.olliort
A true epr vf rc" 25-13
ii y i nos -ntsiitor
lo bo f 1751, riff, and tiG ;&.
jrropeity to py the h jhh..
It U ordered t'i t iid .,
at Phj i'ruhale !' u m . '
tmb day id J dy :
it has an advantage over many other med-' Uo glren 'o .r: t ' f '
icines in chronic diseases, which liuuld cot 1 tate br nt' ' 'i
bo overlooked. ' sueceii'ivt-lv. prvku ii
'i'ry friends, and then judge f r ourse!vPii. n tho IliiUnl Jf- 'a'-1
I venluro to say laat noon" will rc?reta.U" ia !: Uw '
..i.l . ..r.i i. u ......... -
llulli i ' I
I i .1..
!l)l(-
ir.ni i.u -' . .,i ii nr uu -r.
Wctl Hutland, June 10, lu 1 1, i!5 X
Jor sale by J i'ortr, ru'lanl II
1,1 nude a solemn a: r-
had nude :