'* ■? '• ■ "\ .;■*»/ v
ness to take a chair, and an animated con
versation commenced in Latin, a fit lan
guage for controversy, and one in which
the disputants might be presumed to be a
match for each otheT. The Pope, was upon
the whole, very tolerant, as may be imagin
ed from his having not only listened with
calmness to Doctor Townsend’s argument
in favour of releasing the Catholic clergy
from their vows of celibacy, but also assur
ed him that he entertained serious ideas of
adopting such a plan in the early part of his
reign, especially after having received pres
sing letters upon the subject from Germany,
but that in the present state of Italy, and in
deed, of the whole Continent, any innovation
on his part would be dangerous, even if he
had the power to act freely, which he had
not, being by no means the free agent that
- he was on his first accession to the throne.
The same objection would prevent him from
calling a general council, or attempting to
unite the great and divided family of Chris
tians, although he fully admitted the gran
deur of the scheme, protested his own de
sire for peace and harmony, and wept at
Dr. Townsend’s enthusiastic picture of En
gland recognizing in Pio Nono the head of a
universal church. After three-quarters of
on hour’s discussion, the reverend canon took
his leave, placing in the hands of his holi
ness a document, containing the principal
heads of his argument, which appears to
have made some impression on the Pontifl’s
mind, judging from the fact of his having
sent to the Doctor’s residence on Sunday
last, only two days after the interview, re
questing to be made acquainted with the pe
nod of Dr. Townsend’s return (he had just
gone to Naplq$,) as he should then like to
have some more conversation with him.
Mission ARY.
PRAIRIE CREEK MISSION, ALA.
To Kev. W. M. Wightman, D. D., Assistant Trea
surer of the Missionary Society of the M. E.
Church, South. _
Dear Brother,—Since my first quarterly re
port respecting the work of God on this mis
sion, we hare taken under our charge two ad
ditional appointments, which increases the
number under catechetical instruction from six
hundred and eighty to near one thousand. We
have also taken into the Church on probation
during the second quarter, forty-two; none ex
pelled, none died; and for the encouragement of
tire friends of missionary effort among the col
oured population, I think that we can safely
say—the work is in a prosperous condition.
The Spirit of grace appears to be operating pow
erfully upon the hearts and minds of the people.
Very many have been brought to cry, “what
must I do to be saved,” while others have been
happily converted to God. And last but not
least, we have the hearty co-operation of our
patrons and their overseers. I wish, for the
satisfaction of all concerned, to add that there
has been paid by the patrons of this mission for
the support of the missionary the past confer
ence year, 1849, the sum of one hundred and
one dollars in addition to the eighty four report
ed to the Secretary, and published in his last
report, which makes the entire amount contribut
ed by the patrons for the support of the work
among their blacks the past year $185.
Yours respectfully, R. Y. Rew.
♦
CHATTAHOOCHEE MISSION, ALA.
To the Rev W. M. Wightman, D. D., Assistant
Treasurer of the Missionary Society of the M. E.
Church, South.
Dear Brother,—I herewith send you the first
and second quarterly reports of this mission to
the blacks, which is located in Barbour and
Russell counties, Ala., upon the Chattahoochee
River. It is about one hundred and fifty miles
in circumference, embracing twenty appoint
ments, with a numerous coloured population.
The numbers in society are two hundred and
twenty-two—of whom thirty-seven have been
received the present year. I catechize both
children and adults. The mission has been
dropped for two years past, and the societies
were all disorganized when I came to it. I
have formed societies at nearly every appoint
ment. Most of the planters appear to take a
great deal of interest. The coloured people
are enlisted, and we have increasing congrega
tions. I have had the sacrament administered
at one society. About twenty-five children
hap been baptized, and three adults. I go
around my work once in four weeks—preach
three times on Sabbath, and at the other ap
pointments at night. There are others that
would be glad to have preaching, but my work
is too large already. I hope that all those who
see this will not forget to let their prayers as
cend to the God of missions for our success.
Your affectionate brother,
Wm. B. Adams.
BLACK RIVER, AND PEE DEE MISSION,
S. C.
To the Rev. W. M. Wightman, D. D., Assistant
Treasurer of the Missionary Society of the M.
E. Church, South.
Dear Brotfter,—'We commenced our labours
immediately after Conference, and have been
encouraged by the attendance of tolerably large
congregations at most of our appointments, and
a good degree of interest manifested by the col
oured people in the word preached. • We have
discontinued our catechetical instruction on <
two plantations, on one of which a minister of ,
another denomination is employed, and on the
other the proprietor said his were so small that
he did not think it worth while to catechize
them, and expressed a desire that we would
discontinue. We have taken in one place at
which we expect to preach and catechize.
We have also taken in one appointment where
we preach to a white congregation on week
days. We regard the mission in an improving
condition. During the two past quarters there
have been 7 whites and 57 coloured persons
admitted on trial; 31 whites and 107 coloured
received into full connection; 16 white and 91
.coloured children, and 72 coloured adults bap
tized; 3 white and 6 coloured have been drop
ped, 8 coloured expelled. We ask the Church
.to pray that the blessing of God'may be on us
tmd our work. M. Eaddy,
.June 20th, 18,50. A. P. Martin.
CHATTAHOOCHEE MISSION, GA.
To the Rev. W. M. Wightman, p. D., Assistant
Treasurer of the Missionary Society of the M. E.
Church, South.
Dear Brother,—I send you my first and ser
con# report for this year. The work continues
in a thriving condition, though I have been
deprived of one of my preaching places by its
changing hands : consequently the mission has
sustained a loss of thirty-^ive members. I Lave
taken in two other appointments—Mr. Gabriel
JonesandDr.W; and.J. Flewellin's plantations,
—the latter of which I serve in the week. I
t
have now twelve appointments. I have received
by letter 10 ; on probation 33; baptized, adults,
13—children 34; dropped 1. The catechu*
mens are advancing finely. Pray for us.
Wyatt Brooks.
CHRISTIAN ADVOCATE.
CHARLESTON, JUNE 28,1860.
NEW PHASES OF INFIDELITY.
“ A meaning far different from the historical de
finition of divines is currently given to tbe word Salva
tion—a. word, however, which after every softening,
is not sincerely congenial with the highest religion of
the time.”
The foregoing passage is found in a long
and elaborate article in the last number of
the Westminster Review. It represents
fairly the tone of the article, which profes
sedly is written on the Church of England,
but really is a vigorous attack on Christian
ity itself. The diversity of religious opinion
actually existing under the shadow of the
Establishment, and the puerilities of Pusey
ism, furnish the reviewer with an occasion
to exhibit a practical ill ustration of the ten
dencies of the age to speculative unbelief.
We have here the proof to what an extent
German Rationalism has eaten into the popu
lar faith of our father-land ; and how subver
sive of all the fundamental verities of the
Christian revelation, a masked and soi-di
sant liberal religionism may become. Some
such development might have been looked
for as the natural recoil of the human mind
from the attempts made during the last ten
years to restore the worn-out superstitions
of Medieval Christianity. Such a method of
attack had decided advantages over the de
istical aggressions of the eighteenth century.
It claims to be Christian ; nay, it is an advo
cacy of religion in its highest and most per
fect forms. It affects respect for the character
and teachings of Christ. It would abhor the
imputation of infidelity. It takes under its
patronage the Gospels and Epistles, as the
genuine documents of “our holy faith
only it claims, by (he appliances of liberal
hermeneutics, to rid them of mysticism, cant,
and dogma : and it really thinks it has laid
Christendom under contribution by its wor
thy attempt to make the sacred records
quadrate with the scientific constructions,
the brighter illuminations, the psychological
demonstrations and progressive philosophy of
this great, glorious, and wonderful age!
With such professions on the one hand,
and on the other as fair game, church-prin
ciples as they are called—the arrogant and
really absurd pretensions of sacerdotal driv
elling, which represents baptismal regener
ation as the foundation of Christianity, and
sacramental virtue the main efficacy of the
whole system ; which, in the emphatic lan
guage of Bishop Mcllvaine, puts the Church
in the place of Christ; priest instead of gos
pel ; concealment of truth instead of mani
festation of truth ; ignorant superstition in
stead of enlightened faith: bondage where
we are promised liberty—all tending to load
us with whateveris odious in the worst mean
ing of priestcraft, in the place of the free, af
fectionate, enlarging, elevating, and cheer
ful liberty of the children of God ;—nobody
need wonder that a dextrous sophist should
succeed in making out a plausible case
igainst genuine Christianity. In the Arti
:le before us, great stress is laid upon ‘the
living spirit of the time.’ This spirit has
fairly got ahead of the worn-out Protestan
;ism of the sixteenth century. Who except
i man fit for a strait-jacket and physician
really, in this age#of the world, ever appre
hends eternal retributions 1 With the pos
sibility of damnation staring him in the face,
ivhat room could one find for the business,
he amusements, the contests of this world ?
I’o profess a faith which embraces such
sanctions, is a psychological impossibility,
rhere has come to be an irreconcilable va
riance between the doctrine and the age ?
fhe corruption of human nature has ceas
ed to be a theory, scholastically looked at
rom me ouisiae ; it is a mere sentimen
al formula dropping from the lips of nurse*
naids jilted by their lovers, or squires
•obbed by their butlers. The next step is
latural and easy. The forensic scheme of
vicarious atonement is too antiquated for the
everential assent of the age. What use
ndeed, has the age for any such scheme
vhen there is no sin to be atoned for, no
:onsequences of sin in the eternal world, to be
:oncerned about ? .And here the specula
ions of one Dr. Bushncll, a Presbyterian di
vine of this country, come signally to the
•e viewer’s aid. Under cover of the newrevela
ions of this distinguished orthodox divine,
loble and cultivated minds in the old coun
ry recoil from the so-called “ economy of
salvation.” Well they may. For what else
nut child’s play is the talk of salvation when
here is nothing to be saved from ? You
liave gotten rid of original sin, actual sin,
3very kind of sin, every fear of the punish
mentofsin; all thethreateningsofthe Bible are
resolved into bug-bears ; you have found an
ige with no moral instincts, nq sense of re
sponsibility to God, no fear of eternal judg
ment, and of course, this same age feels that
he New Testament doctrine of salvation by
he death of Christ—“ the just for the un
ust,” is obsolete, one of the things that were
it to go into the garret along with the worn
nit lumber of past and antiquated notions.
\fen that ride on rail-roads, read newspa
pers, and sail round the globe, have got so far
nto the realm of universal knowledge, as to
lave outgrown the silly notion^ which fill
heir grand-mothers’ heads.
Now what is the plain inference froin all
bis stuff? Why, that the age—^the adora
' . 'h.i ^ -
ble age—is a sort of god—a mighty image
in the plain of Dura, before which every
knee must bow. Humanity is reduced to a
great, universal abstraction ; Christ, a my*
thical personage, is the type of universal
self-redemption ; the only inspiration is that
of genius and knowledge. This latter inspi
ration has fairly driven from the held, what
in darker ages was supposed to be divine in
spiration. Our geologists have upset the
Mosaic cosmogony, with its poetical con
ceptions of Hades as the centre of the earth.
Our astronomers have demonstrated that the
earth is a paltry planet utterly unfit for the
scene of the advent and incarnation and Re
demption, with a local heaven, the personal
abode of Christ and God—as the legends
called the Scriptures, talk about. Ethnolo
gists have made a successful showing that
the unity of the human species is a fallacy
and their descent from a common pair, a
mistake. Thus the ground is knocked from
under the scriptural account of erection; and
Eden, the serpent, the apple, the fall and
hereditary corruption of mankind, the coun
teractive Redemption of the gospel, the
preaching of salvation, and all missionary
efforts,are atone sweep of the magician’s wand
resolved into smoke. Henceforth the horn
books of modern science are the only trust
worthy sources of religious truth ; philoso
phic inspiration supplants divine inspiration,
the worship of God is gracefully supplan- -
ted by the worship of the age> - and scien
tific lecturers, and literary review-writers
are the only preachers of the true gospel.
This is indeed going at rail-road speed.
Common sense would like to enquire, how
it comes to pass, that amidst all the irra
diations which now cover the age, sin still
maintains foothold amongst the habitations
of men ? How it is that moral evil has
not, long since, been banished from those
countries which have been favoured with
the discoveries of the modern schools of
illuminati ? Why have not the feculent
sources of social evil been dried up long
ago ? If conscience is only a nursery ap
parition to frighten grown-up children, why
is conscience so doggedly at work among
men—a universal instinct—an inward voice
not to be entirely hushed m the lowest
depths of crime ? Why the universal con
fession of sin?—the universal effort to escape
from its retributions ? Our new philosophy
cuts the knot by pretending to ignore the ve
ry existence of sin in the heart, or in the
world ; and by stoutly denying that any
consequences of sin in the future state, are to
be apprehended. But the lowest empiri
cism might do the same with respect to fe
ver or cholera. Would this give relief to
the sick man ? Tell him he is mistaken ;
nothing is the matter with him: bid him
dismiss all uneasiness about his state, rise
and go to his meals and his business. This
would indeed be a marvellous method of
cure ! How far different with Christiani
ty. It describes the moral disease of our
common nature, lays down the diagnosis,
and tells man what is in his heart but it
“reveals its great secret only to those who
ask it ; helps only those who in their deep
est nature, accept its conditions of help.”
Speculative skepticism admits its utter impo
tency of releif, by the very fact that it denies
that relief is needed. But every man’s
consciousness convicts him of sin; every
earnest spirit groans for deliverance. In
spite of an age which proudly professes to
have condensed the sea of truth within the
pretty.thimble of its scientific investigations,
the only practical remedy which will ever
be open to the inquiring spirit, is that which
Christianity offers—repentance toward God
and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ.
“The will must return by the world-old
pathway of Atonement and Grace, which is
the same yesterday, and to-day, and forev
er. It must throw itself into this new at
mosphere, and make the attempt to breathe
it; plunge into this new element of life, and
strike abonl in it as the swimmer spreadeth
forth his hands to swim.” Then salvation shall
be actually realized :—not indeed the salva
tion “which is congenial with the highest
religion of the’time”—a poetical, sentimen
tal, or infidel salvation which saves us from i
nothing, except it be common sense and hon- 1
est dealing with our souls; but salvation '
wide as the circle of earth and heaven; deliv
erance from guilt, pollution, and the fear of
death ; from the moanings of shame, the bite |
of remorse and the fearful looking for of .
future condemnation : and, which is the in
vestiture of the spiritwithahopefull of glory,
a title to, a mcclness for, everlasting life. '
And when the infidel worshippers of this di- 1
vine age shall find their throned idol, with all 1
its pomp of pretension, eaten up of worms, 1
Christianity shall remain to the world the
shadow of a great rock in a weary land; '
the true element of all progress, the lamp
of all knowledge, the shrine of all social i
excellence ; the standard of all morality; ,
“the admirable religion, which,” as Montes- ;
quieu happily describes it in his Spirit of 1
Laws, “while it seems only to have in view
the felicity of the other life, constitutes the
happiness of this,”
I
CORRESPONDENCE OF THE SOUTH- ,
ERN CHRISTIAN ADVOCATE. " .
Mr. Editor,—Did you ever try to describe (
Niagara Falls 1 If so, I warrant the descrip- i
tion was a failure. If you never did, I advise i
you never to make tbe attempt. Niagara is a t
miracle of nature that defies description. To <
obtain any just idea of it, it must be seen. i
You reach it from li'iffalo by the railway, ^
which runs to a considerable extent through t
primeval forests, and frequently within sigh* of ;
the river, which you kqow connects lake Erie s
With lake Ontario. “ Grand Island” is pointed |
ont to you—the site, I believe, of Major
Noah’s projected occidental * Jerusalem. The
town of N iagara with its beautiful churches
and neat suburban cottages, 'presents a pic
turesque appearance. A profuse growth of
arbor vita and other evergreens adds a
charm to the scenery, which is not a little ro
mantic as you approach the Falls. A ride of
nearly two miles, in one of the numerous car
riages which are ever in attendance, brings you
to the suspension bridge—a wonderful work of
art, worthy of its world-famed location. Your
coachman pays for the carriage, but that does
not preclude your privilege of paying a couple
of shillings for yourself. This sum procures
you a ticket, which is presented at the Canada
side of the bridge, and which gives you the
right of way for twenty minutes. A capital
arrangement for the proprietors—as you have,
of course, to spend a much longer time on the
Canada side, and then you must pay twenty-five
cents toT a return ticket.
About a mile above the cataract, the river di
vides, forming Goat island, from the head of
which the principal current rolls along the
Canada bank, with a gradual descent of about
fifty feet. It is much narrower here than above,
and of course much deeper.' Below the Falls,
where it is narrower still, it is three hundred
feet deep. Standing on Table Rock, yon look
down into the tremendous chasm, and are
struck with speechless awe, as you behold the
great river making his everlasting leap—roaring
and foaming as he dashes and plunges over
the precipitous crest of the creseant-shaped rock,
veiling himself with the mist which perpetually
rises from the abyss into which he descends.
Not satisfied with a view from above, we in
vested ourselves with oil-cloth covering and
procured a guide, paying fifty cents per head,
and went down beneath the over-hanging cliff.
We proceeded along a shelving path, until we
found ourselves under the Horse-shoe Falls,
where it seemed as though we should.be blind
ed by the mist, stunned by the roar, and drown
ed by the torrents which descended upon us.
We ventured, however, to the Ultima Thule i
and, standing on Termination Rock, abandoned
ourselves to sensations and emotions to be re
alized nowhere else but there. We soon re
treated from our fearful position, and reappeared
in the upper world. One of our company re
fused to. risk his life in such an adventure, sup
porting himself by the poetic maxim : “ Fools
rush in where angels fear to tread.” We al
lowed him to p)ume himself upon the superior
ity assumed—not caring to exchange our fool
ish rashness for his angelic prudence.—On re
gaining the American side, we paid another
quarter a piece at the bridge which leads to
Goat island. This is a most enchanting spot,
yielding several admirable points of observa
tion, of which we availed ourselves—in parti
cular, the summit of a tower which gives a
commanding view of this incomparable and in
describable panorama. And as I have pro
nounced it indescribable, you will not expect
me to attempt a description.
Having procured a supply of geological and
botanical specimens and Indian curiosities—of
which latter there is a large market at Niagara,
—we returned to Buffalo, despatched a hasty
plate of—something to eat, and at five o’clock
seated ouiselves in the express train for Albany.
We passed through Attica, Rochester, Geneva,
Auburn, Syracuse, Rome, Utica—time-honoured
names—and Schenectady—a distance of 327
miles, which we accomplished in about thirteen
hours. Here we were transferred to a steam
boat, which glided swiftly and noiselessly
through some of the most magnificent scenery
in the world. At Poughkeepsie we exchanged
the boat for the car, which whizzed along the
romantic bank of the Hudson with amazing
velocity—now dashing around the hills—pre
sently under them, through tunnels—then over
bridges across the inlets of the river—stopping
a moment at many a charming village, and giv
ing us a view of mountain-tops and gorges,
together with West Point, Sing Sing, Trinity
Cemetery, and other notalilia of this pictur
esque and romantic region. We were in New
York—ICO miles from Albany—by two o’clock
that afternoon.
The next morning we were in Baltimore,
where we “ kept holyday.” I attended divine
service in the morning at Light street, and at
night in Charles street, where I heard a capital
sermon from a Southern preacher, who occu
pied the pulpit by invitation of the amiable
nastor, the Rev. Mr. Hurst. This is perhaps
the most beautiful Methodist Church I ever
taw—it is a Grecian' temple, elegant .in its
idornments and admirable in its proportions.
The pews are rented, being an exception to the
isages of Baltimore Methodism. The congre
gation is composed, for the most part, of those
>four members and friends who are in easy
lircumstances. They resorted to the expediont
»f “apewed Church,” to secure to our com
nunion a large and respectable porti on of the
sommunity, which otherwise could not be
>rought under our influence. They affirm
hat for want of a provision of this sort, mul
-itudes have been lost to Methodism in the city
>f Baltimore—a statement which, I suppose,
sannot be disproved. With out pronouncing upon
he propriety of the innovation, I may just ob
lerve that the Charles street Church numbers
nany of the oldest and best Methodists that
lave grown up in the monumental city, which,
rou know, has been designated “ the hot-bed
if Methodism.” ft is also proper to remark, that
here is a good understanding and cordial fel
owship between the members of this Church
ind the members of other Methodist Churches
n the city, as I was informed by some of the
after.
I most not forget to notice the singing in this
3hnrch': it is like the music of angels—at
east, what we imagine is the harmony of the
:elestial choir, ^ime, tone, expression, articul
ation—all are perfect, beyond description. J
tever heard anything more delightfully solemn
md impressive than the chanting oi the first
welys verses of the ninetieth psalm, by that
?haries street choir. “ The chief musician”
i Comfort Tiffany, Esq., the far-famed leader
f the old choir in Eight street. They have no
rgan—no instrumental music of any kind—and
t is to be hoped they never will have any,
rhile they can command auoh voices to ting
he high praises of God, “ Stringed jnstrur
nenta end organs” do well enough where, there :
re no tingtrt i bat I hope, air, the Methodist <
■ ■ *•
Church will never disregard the injunction of
inspiration: “ Let every thing tint hath breath
praise the Lord.”
' The predecessor of Mr. Horst in the Charles
street pulpit, was oor excellent friend, the Rev.
Thos. B. Sargent, with whom, by the way, we
had a delightful interview. Understanding that
we were in the city he sought us out with char
acteristic urbanity and kindness, and to our
great gratification abridged the time usually de
voted to repose. He has charge this year of
North Baltimore station^-a most responsible
appointment. We need not say how highly his
services are appreciated by his flock. He is in
fine health and spirits—apparently as young as
ever, with the exception of a premature change
of the hair—he is abundant in labors, and an
ardent admirer of constitutional Methodism.
If he snould chance to see this gossipping com
munication, he will please make a draft upon a
large stock of good nature which he possesses,
and excuse the liberty indulged by your cor
respondent.
When in Baltimore, we learned that the Rev.
James Sewell, some years since stationed in
your city and Savannah, is now preacher in
charge of Whatcoat station, a pleasant appoint,
ment in West Baltimore. We bad not the
pleasure of seeing him, but understood that he
is in all respects in statu quo. This statement
will be gratifying to his numerous friends in
the South.
We had the pleasure of a short interview
with the Rev. Geo. Pennell, of Liverpool, Eng
land. He was just from your city, where he
had been sojourning for a time, and returns to
his own country, with higher considerations ot
Southern Methodism than facts, perhaps, will
warrant. I wish the Southern Church merited
the high commendations which she sometimes
receives. May she labour moTe energetically
to deserve them. Brother P. is especially
gratified with the efforts put forth in the South
for the salvation of the coloured people, and
justly considers this the crowning glory of the
connection. He cannot imagine why Balti
more did not adhere South—he wonders at it,
and is right in supposing that no satisfactory
reason can be assigned. The intelligent lay
men who conversed with us on the subject de
volve the whole responsibility upon the preach
ers, and are exceedingly mortified at the falsie
position in which they are .placed. But they
say little about it—not desiring to generate
strife. Having no such desire myself, I will
say nothing. I have, however, my thoughts
on the subject, and my feelings too, but they
might not be of special interest to you, and if
they were, I do not know that I am under any
special obligation to divulge them.
I intended to make a few reflections on the
moral aspects of the North-Western portion of
our country—that great theatre of restless ac
tivity, the future home of multiplied millions of
emigrants from the old world, and their de
scendants—but 1 perceive by a late issue of
the Advocate that you have entered into that
field of observation yourself, and I have no dis
position to operate “ in another man’s line of
things,” especially if he be an editor—so here
I close. Beth.
CHINA MISSION CORRESPONDENCE.
* Shanghai, China, March 20, 1850.
My Dear Brother,—M. Rollin in his treatise
“ De la maniere d’enseigner, et d’etudier les
belles lettres,” says, “II en est de ces principes
des sciences commedes fondements d’un edifice
8’ils ne sont solides et profonds, tout ce qu’on
batit dessus est ruineux”—in plain English—
“ As with the foundations of a building, so is
it with the first principles of science; if they
be not well and solidly laid, the superstructure
will be speedily in ruins.” So is it with the
Chinese ; if indeed it can be said that the foun
dation of any of the sciences were ever laid
among them. And so should we find it with
their buildings erected after foreign patterns,
should we permit them to lay the foundations
after their own way. I had promised myself
the pleasure of a long discourse with you, the
present month—and also with my honored
friend of the Richmond Advocate, Dr. Lee,—
who has been working hard particularly the
last year in hearty co-operation with you, to
lay a foundation for Southern Methodism in
China,—but you see we have already driven
thf piles for two mission houses in China, and
must be on the spot every working hour of the
day, giving the most rigid attention to ourfoun
dations, lest they be laid ruinously. I wish I
could add that we were engaged also in
laying the foundation of a Southern Methodist
Church of suitable size in Shanghai, from the
pulpit of which we might talk to a thousand
Chinese. Now will you aid, together with Dr.
Lee, and Messrs. McFerrin and Henkle, in let
ting our good people know that they ought to do
it? The Methodist Expositor shows clearly
that the West ought to bring in something by
way of dower for her union with the South;
and how glad the. South would be too, to ex
pend the amount thus contributed in fitting up
a mansion in this distant empire where the great
Methodist family might branch out anew, and
send out her roots till meeting with that
branch soon to be planted on your Western
border, by the angels of your church in Califor
nia, (brother Boring and his coadjutors), Method
ism mignt snaKe nands round the worldon
her institutions the tun might never set;—and
if God should be with us, we then would be
the most Catholic church on earth—the shout of
glory would girt the globe. What say you,
brethren, shall it be so 1 Five ihoutand dollart
will do the business handsomely.
Although I had frequently talked with the
people jn the templet, it *was not till the 9th of
March that I made .the first essay to ditcourte
in a Church, in the Shanghai dialect. The at
tempt was without special preparation id one of
the London mission’s chapels; and brother
Sami. W. Capers, my old presiding elder, will
be glad to hear lhat I was not half so much
ibashed as I was the first time he called on me to
sxhort at the Charleston Camp-meeting. My
theme was—-How can man attain happiness
tfter death ! God grant that those who listen
ed may remember Jesus—the fabric’s corner
itone.
My colleague's diyeltyng liquse is nearly
iqlf way up, JJis quthopses were CQmpleted
toms seven or eight months ago. He has
tlso erected on his iota entail chapel,—but
tuite n handsome building—it la now being
painted, and the tiled floor being laid, and will
be ready to open in a week or eo I ahoold think.
He preferred forbimeelf an entirely aeparate es
tablishment. However be bas been kind
enough to advance me from the mission-house
fund fllOlS to this date, which I have expend
ed as follows: Fot the lot of land $240 : for
the fence and gates $70 : to the builder to buy
materials $700. My premises when completed
will cost close on $2500. With, a chapel the
same as my colleague’s—$150 more. My
family being larger than his will explain why
my house may cost one or two hundred dollars
more than bis. My premises will be complet
ed, Deo volente, by the end of the month of Au
gust—brother Taylor’s a month or two earlier,
so you will perceive that he can outstrip me
in house-building as well as in learning and
speaking the Shanghai dialect.
Our beloved Bishop Andrew’s letter, as well
as my good brother McSwain’s—both of which
came in your box mail, in about five months
from Charleston, by the Horatio from New
V ork,—I will take the earliest opportunity to
answer.
At the present time the famine—which I
Wrote of as apprehended last summer it tore in
the land. Shanghai has now over five thousand
adults from the neighboring hamlets, in total
dependence upon the single meal of rice which
they may receive from public or private charity.
To distribute a dollar among them is a difficult
task, for in every place you might attempt to do
so, a hundred people would lay bold on yen to
get a cent’s value. Many die daily for want of
food, and such must continue to be the case
till the God of heaven shall bless the country
with a copious harvest. I yesterday saw two
thousand children between the ages of four and
fourteen, who are sheltered in an extensive cot
ton-warehouse, and fed by means of a tax
which the mandarins impose upon wealthy
Chinese for the purpose. The foreign residents
feed a dailysmeal of rice to thousands. The
result will be the congregating of immense
swarms; and the consequent filling up of the
city, instead of the country, fields of the slain.
Tau Quong, (Reason's glory) the Emperor of
China, died about the 17th Feb’y, and the old
Queen dowager, the emperor’s mother, in Jan
uary. Tau Quong left the throne to his fourth
son ^Ee Lung ( Transcendency glorious). After
the death of the emperor is proclaimed the peo
ple cannot shave their heads nor beards for a
hundred days; nor the literary bachelors wear
their buttons on their caps. My seen-sang now
wears a blue knot on his cap instead of his
gold button and red silk tassel.
Accept the assurances of affectionate and high
regard from your servant in the gospel.
B. Jenkins.
RECENT PUBLICATIONS.
Pictorial Field Book or the Revolution;
Or illustration•, by pen and pencil, of the his
tory, scenery, biography, relics, and traditions
of the war of Independence. By B. J. Loos
ing, New York : Harper Brothers.
Wehave before us the second number of this el
egant work which is.issued semi-monthly. Each
number contains 48 large octavo pages, and is
sold at 25 cents. The work will be completed
in about twenty numbers, and will contain
some six hundred engravings. Those contain
ed in this number, which by the way is the only
one we have yet seen, are spirited and beautiful.
The letter-press is in the highest finish of the
noble typograghical art. J. W. Sloy, Agt.
A" Key to the exercises in Ollendorff's New
Method of learning to read, write, and speik
the French Language. Revised edition. New
York: D. Appleton §r Co. 1850.
A valuable pendent to the Exercises in the
most deservedly popular Method of acquiring
the French Language,
Dictionary of Mechanics, Engine-Work and
Engineering. Oliver Byrne, Editor. New
York t D. Appleton Co. 1850.
Number ten treats of Electric Light, electro
metallurgy, electro-motive engine, elevators,
elliptograph, embossing machine, embankments,
and details of engines. Those articles are ac
companied with well executed engravings.
The work when completed will be exceedingly
valuable.
The North British Review for May. Amer
ican edition. New York r Leonard Scott §r Co.
Charleston: John Russell, Agent.
Contents: Art. 1 Claverhouse by Macaulay
andAytoun..2 Edwin Chadwick,C.B. 3 John
Calvin. 4 Hunt’s Poetry of Science. 5 F. K.
Hunt’s ‘ Fourth Estate.’ 6 Mahomet and the
Koran. 7 Southey’s Life and Correspondence.
8 The Jewish Theocracy. 9 Lord Jeffrey.
The leading articles in this number are in
the best vein of review writing.
Public Documents. We are indebted to the
attention of the Hon. H. W. Hilliard for
copies of the Report on the Finances, and the
Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Sur
vey.
For the Southern Christian Advocate.
THE NINTH SECTION.
With the sincerest desire on my part to ap
prove all that the General Conference did at
the recent session in St. Louis, yet I cannot
avoid the expression of my deep regret at the
course of that body upon the subject of the
Ninth Section as contained in our Book of Dis
cipline, on page 135. Their action upon that
subject will inflict irreparable injury upon the
cause of Methodism in the whole South.
What are the tacts ? Before the division of
our Church, our Book of Discipline contained a
section, which the South thought was unneces
sary and improper, and which offended the
opinions and sensibilities of the membership in
the South. Although our Southern papers ut
tered no complaints upon the subject, yet w*
thought our feelings and prejudices were en
titled to as much respect from the constituted
authorities of our common Church, as those of
the North, and therefore that nothing upon the ,
subject, either for or against slavery, should find ■
a place in our Book of Discipline.
When the Church South separated from the
Church North, that odious section, to the sur
prise and regret of our membership was retain- '
ed, and was madeapftt and parcel'of their j
Discipline, a section which proposed a plan for
the “ extirpation of the evil of slavery.” Its 1
retention seems to have been submitted to 1
upon the ground, that so soon after the organi- ,
zation of our Southern Church, that it was pro*
I
b*bly impossible to think of every thing, tbat
required the action of the Conference, and that
consequently the General Conference had unin
tentionally omitted to consider and act upon it.
The General Conference, however, met in May
last, and after discussion and consideration de
liberately decided to retain it as a part of the
Discipline of the Southern Methodist Church,
thus placing our Church upon precisely the
tame abolition platform, as the one occupied by
fee avowed anti-slavery Methodist Church of
the North. Now I and other members of the
Church South, think that we have the right to
know something of the motives and reasons of
those who makettas of fee South, through our
Book of Discipline by implication at least, as
sent to the “extirpation of the evils of slavery,”
and who by their votes have retained a section,
which makes the holding of slaves, a disquali
fication for office in a Southern Church, unless
the owner emancipate them, if practicable. It
is no answer to say, as the majority said, feat
this section is “ inoperative by general con
sent.” It was “ inoperative” before the separ
ation, until the abolitionists got the majority in
the General Conference, and then tbat section,
which had been “ inoperative by general con
sent,” became fearfully operative. If it be in
operative why retain it, and why not rescind it
as the Committee on Revisals recommended I
Why wound our sensibilities by retaining a
section, which its advocates say is useless %
Why cause our Book of Discipline to perpetu
ate a fraud upon pro-slavery men I If it be in
operative, why should our Book of Discipline
be made to insult Southern men, and to deceive
Northern men 1
No, sir. I regret that I cannot resist the
conclusion, that it was retained for a purpose.
Northern influences first engrafted this section
in our common Book of Discipline. The
South submitted, though in my judgment, that
section ought to have separated the Church at
the time of the adoption. History furnishes us
with no instances in which the dark spirit of
fanaticism has been conciliated and appeased
by concession. It has been said by some one,
that it stops short of nothing, this side of the
grave. The North was not willing that this
section should continue to be “ inoperative,”
and although I am as thoroughly with the
South both ecclesiastical and political, in her
struggles against Northern wrong and aggres
sion, yet I cannot resist the conclusion that
with the Book of Discipline, they had a per
fect right to insist upon the application of that
section to the case of Bishop Andrew. He
was a slave-holder, and the law of the Church
made that a disqualification foT office, if the
emancipation of them was practicable, and this
can be done, at least in this State, if it be de
sired. The only regret I ever had upon that
subject, was that Southern men had not justified
him in holding slaves, instead of placing his
defence upon the miserable ground, that he
could not get rid of them. In the North a class
of politicians has arisen, who are so sublimated
and ethereal in their morals, that they look to
something higher than oaths and constitutions
to regulate their political conduct. Another
sect has come iorth, who rise higher even than
God’s word, and discard its teachings upon
questions of this kind. We, however, as yet,
are content to abide its sanctions, as our stand
ard, in such questions, having no note of at
taining higher purity than Abraham, who as
sociated with angels and conversed with God,
and yet was sunounded with bondsmen al
most without number.
No! I repeat the opinion that Northern in
fluences first inserted that section in our Book
of Discipline. Northern influences have re
tained it, and by its retention whenever the
public opinion of the South will tolerate it,
the Church South will be in a position to enter
with the Church North, upon that anti-slavery
crusade, to which this section clearly commits
her! Let the membership of the Church
South, demand its total and unconditional re
peal. Let us have no “ inoperative” abolition
in our Book of Discipline. We owe it to our
selves and to our Church. We are not aboli
tionists or anti-slavery men, jn word, deed of
thought. We infinitely prefer the slavery of
the South, to the cringe and pauperism of thp
North, and let that portion of our Discipline
which falsely proclaims' to the contrary be
erased from our book forever.
Alabama, A Layman.
For the Southern Christian Advocate.
TESTIMONIAL TO THE LATE REV.
ISAAC BORING.
SECOND VtUARTERLY CONFERENCE,
Monticello circuit, June 15, 1850.
On motion a committee consisting of Thomas
J. Smith, James L. Maddux, and W. H. Pot.
ter were appointed to draft a preamble and reso
lutions, expressive of the sense of the Monticello
circuit in reference to the death of the Rev.
Isaac Boring, the late preacher in charge of
said circuit, who made the following report,
which was unanimously adopted.
As it has pleased an all-wise Providence to
remove from us the Rev. Isaac Boring, our
much-beloved preacher in charge, who died at
St. Louis, the 11th day of May last, while dis
charging the duties of tho worthy trust commit
ted to him by the Georgia Conference, with that
firmness, decision, and Christian humility,
which has long characterized him as a minister
and as a man $ and as his death, which, at any
time, would have been an incalculable loss to the
Church, has oepurred at a tiifie, and under cir
cumstances peculiarly and deeply afflictive 'fq
the Church in the Monticello circuit, having
been called from the midst of his labors, upon
which, at the opening of the present year, he
had entered with that scriptural zeal, and devo?
tion to the cause of Christ, which excited in us
a well-grounded hope for the prosperity of Zion,
and that abundant success would crown his ef
forts in this part of the moral vineyard of the
Lord ; but as he was taken suddenly ftonj
among a people who loved and honored him for
his eminent talents, his moral integrity and
worth, and his uniform Christian deportment:
and as we are desirous of expressing our high
regard for bis unyielding virtues, and our devo
tion to him as a pastor of the Church, therefore,
be it unanimously resolved by this Quarterly
Conference
First, That by the death of the Rev. Isaac Boring
the Ga. Conference has been deprived of a member,
■vhose strong intellect, whose powers of clear and
logical reasoning, whose vast store of Biblical know*
ledge, and whose constant zeal' for God, qualified
lim for the most responsible station in the Church,
>f which he was one of the strongest pillars, and ren
lered him ono of the most successful advocates of the
eligion of the Bible.
Second, That by his unexpected death, tho Mon
tcello circuit has sustained fire loss of a minister,
freatly beloved by his brethren, and highly respected
>y the world, whose private virtues, and meekness
>f spirit, rendered him tho object of universal love
md esteem, and paved the way lor much usefulness
o tho Church. 1
Third, Tfial we deeply lament, white we patjent
y bear, this'severe stroke of :an all-wise, but inex
ilicable Providence. - 1
Fourth, That his now mourning widow and filth
irleas children have our nnNgned condolence in this
litter bereavement of a gentle and much loved hue