* i n K A KF A1R A J' A1 .TON.
i ao K'lu'Wiu^; i> t!.u oUici.il account t(l\CU
by tlie Muyoi of tli<» recent aliutr at Alton :
M.moh'h Orncr, )
City of Alton, Nov. S, }
TO Tin: IT'HI,1C.
lii orde» that the public mind may
be correctly informed of the lamenta
ble and fatal tragedy that was enacted
in our city on the night of the 7 th inst.,
and with a view of preventing mid eor
recting distal ting .statements ot the
proceedings of the moh, and those per
sons against whom the attack was di
rected, I deem it ineumhenton me and
proper, that I should present, in my of
ficial capacity, a plain statement of all
the facts connected w ith the unhappy
excitement that has so long agitated
the peace and tranquility of the citizens
of Alton.—Without recurring to the
causes or results of the previous ex
citements in reference to the “Alton
Observer” press and its final destruc
tion, I shall confine, my statement to
ihe last, and most melancholy occur
rence, which has befallen our city.
For several days past it had been an
nounced and generally believed,that a
printing press was hourly expected to i
be landed at our wharf. It had also j
been the current rumor, that this press
was intended for the re-establishment j
of the “Alton Observer.” The circu-'
.lation of these rumors produced no i
small degree of excitement among J
those who had taken a decided stand
against tho ubolition sentiments that I
were understood to have been disseni- i
inated through the columns of the Ob-!
server. Various reports of a threaten- j
lug character against the landing of]
the press were in circulation, which
led the friends of the Observer and its j
editor to make preparations to dc-!
fend the press, in case any violence ,
should be ottered by those opposed to j
the publication of that paper.
On 1 uesday about 3 o clock in the
morning,! was called from my lodgings,1
i»ml interned that the press had arriv- j
ed at the wharf, and my ollicial inter- (
fercnce was desired. 1 immediately
repaired to tho wharf, and remained ,
there until the press was landed and
stored in the ware-house of Messrs.!
Godfrey, Gilmau &. Co. There were
no indications of violence or resistance
on the part of any oue at that time.
The arrival of the "abolition press”(as
it was called) was generally known in
the earlv part of that day, which serv
ed to rekindle the excitement. Rep
resentation was made to tho Common
Council of the threatening reports
which were in circulation. The Com
mon Council did not, however, deem
it necessary to take any action on the
subject. Gentlemen directly interest
ed in protecting the press from mob vi
olence, deemed it expedient to guard
the warehouse with men and arms, in
readiness to resist violence, should anv
be offered. During the early part of
the night of Tuesday, it was reported
through the city that there were from
30'.to 40 armed* men on guard within
the warehouse.
About 10 o’clock at night 20 or 30 j
persons appeared at the south end o! j
the warehouse, and gave some indica
tions of an attack. Mr. W. S. Gilman,
from the third story of the warehouse,
addressed them without, and urged
them to desist,and at the same time in- i
formed them that the persons within
the house were prepared, and should
endeavor to defend their property. and
that serious consequences might ensue.
Those without demanded the ywm.and
said they would not be satisfied until
it was destroyed; said they did nut wish
to injure any person, or other proper- j
t v, but insisted on having the press.
To which Mr. G. replied that the press j
should not be given up. The persons '
outside then repaired to the north end •
6f the building, and attacked the buil
ding by throwing stones. &.c. and con
tinued their violence for 15 or 20 min
utes, w hen a gun was fired from one ol”
the w indows of the warehouse, and a '
man named Liman Bishop was mor- '
tally wounded, lie was carried to aj
surgeon’s office.and the mob w ithdrew 1
and dispersed, with the exception ofa j
small number.
Upon the first indications of distur- ■
bance I called on the civil authoiities !
most convenient, and repaired with all
despatch to the scene of action. By
this time the firing from the w »i .-house
and the consequent death of one of j
their number, (Bishop died soon alter ;
he received the shot) had greatly in
creased the excitement, and added j
I to the number of the mob. Owing to
is the late hour of the night, but few citi
il zens were present at the onset, except |
'f those engaged in the contest. Conse
quently the civil authorities could do'
but litflc towards dispersing the mob.
except by persuasion. A la, go num
ber of people soon collected around
me. I w as requested to go to the w are
house and state to those within, that
those without had resolved to deslrov
the press.and that tin y w<add n< >t des i t
until they had accomplished their ob
ject. that all would r< tire until 1 should
return, wli h r< quest was m ule by ■ ex
clamation, and all soon retired to uvai,
mv return.
I was replied to by those within thr
warehouse that tii«• v had assembled
tliere to protect their property against
lawless \ ioleuce. and that they wore1
determined to do so. The mob beoraii,
to assemble with increased number-, it
with guns and weapons of different
kinds. I addressed the multitude mid 1
commanded them to desist am! <!i -
{)ers°. to which they listened attentive
y and respectfully, but to no purpose
u
*— ru h was now made to the ware
house, with theerv of “fire the house,”
‘ hum them out,” b»c. The tiring soon
became tearful and dangerous between
the contending parties—-so much so,
that the further interposition on the
part of the ci\ il authorities and citizens
, was believed altogether inadequate and
I hazardous in the* extreme—no means
j were at my control, or that of any oth
i er otlieer present, bv which the mob
could he dispersed, and the loss ot lile
j and shedding of blood prevented.
. Scenes of the most daring recklessness
and infuriated madness followed in
; quick succession.
The building was surrounded, and
J the inmates were threatened with e\
| termination and death in the most
! frightful form imaginable. Every
means of escape by Might were rutoti.
The scene now became one of appall
ing and heart-rending interest! Fif
teen or twenty citizens,amongst whom
were some of our most worthy and en
terprising. were apparently doomed to
an unenviable and inevitable death if
the Marries continued. About the time
tire fire was communicated to tire buil
ding, lire Rev. E. P. Lovejoy,(Iatc ed
itor of the Observer,) received l hails
in his breast,near the door of the ware
house. and fell a corpse in a few sec
onds : two others from the warehouse
were wounded. Several persons en
gaged in tho attack were severely
wounded—the wounded however are
not considered dangerous. The con
test had been raging for an hour or ,
more, when the persons in the ware
house, by some means (the exact man
ner which it was done I have not been
able to ascertain) intimated that they
would abandon the house and the press
provided they were permitted to depait
unmolested. The doors were soon
thrown open, and those within retreat
ed down Front street.
Several guns were fired upon them ,
while retreating, and one individual
had a narrow escape—a hall passed
through his coat near his shoulder. A
large number of persons now rushed ,
into the warehouse, threw tho press
upon the wharf, where it was broken
in pieces, and thrown into the river.
The fire in the roof of the w arehouse j
was extinguished by a spectator who >
deserves great praise for his courage- 1
ous interference, and but little damage !
was done by it to the building, jio
disposition seemed to be manifested to
destroy any other property in the ware
house. Without further attempts at
violence, the mob now dispersed, and
no further open indications of disorder
or violence have been manifested.
The foregoing is stated cm what I
consider undoubted authority, and
mostty from mv own personal knowl
edge. JOHN M. KRITM, M,yor.
Forage (.'urn.—We wort* presented a day
or two since with an ear of corn brought from
Texas, called “Forage Corn.” It grows a- |
bundanlly in that country,and is used as pro- '
vender for stock. Its great advantage over
Indian corn grown in the United States, for ,
that Purpose, consists in the readiness with
which cattle cat not only the grain, but busk
and cob also—another advantage is that be
sides the r.\H which is covered with grain net
much unlike the common Indian corn, the
tassel is full of grains something larger than
.wheat. We do not know whether it could
he cultivated in this climate or not, but it is
certainly woith the trial. It may be bad of
Messrs. It. Sinclair, Jr. ic Co.'—Baltimore '
Chronicle.
Tiif Pork trade.—The Chillieothe Ga
zette, premising that for several years past,
that town has been a mart for buyers anil sel
lers of pork, to a great extent, remarks, that
owing to certain influences over which nei- 1
tber party has any control, there have been |
no transactions In the article there woith
mentioning, this s *ason. Purchasers had thus
tar made no offer exceeding S-'t 50 per hun
dred, and this price had not been acceded to j
by sellers. In some parts of Ohio, as stated
by that paper,occasional sales had been made
at ?l. The Gazette adds that hundreds of
hogs have been driven from that great pork
country, within a few weeks past, seeking an i
eastern market, where better prices seem t<>
prevail, fk. that “thousands in >re will follow.”
The Columbus Journal say«, “A gentle
man who has just returned from a tour in the
northern counties, informs us that the pork
and beef raisers, ami the farmers generally,
feel severely the absence of purchasers, who
have been in the inni ket in former years much
earlier than November.”
The Madison (Indiana) Banner says that
pork lias not yet received a fixed price in that
market. Three dollars is ofiered, but no con
tracts yet made at that rate.
The Wheeling Gazette of last week says,
“Pork, we h ive i -ason to lodieve, w ill he ve
ry plentiful this year. Atall events, in this
tu ighliorhood, we know much larger quanti
ties have been i a is edthari usual. From Illi
nois, Indiana, am! Missou.i,ouraccounts are
of a similar import. Speculators and j ork
merchants are back war I in pun basing • > l.ir.
for re;*- a • to us unsatisfactory. But we look
for a lively business shortly among them,
which will make up lor past lethargy .
From the Xatirnal Int. of Sutiii'i.iy last.
Puzzle for Lain,crs.—In one of Hie
counties of Hut 5'jrv, a case li t- been
produced by Nature, wliicli furnishes
the Hungarian lawyers with an oppor
tunity to exercise their ingenuity :
“On a steep declivity of the river
IIcrr. it!* lay two vineyards, one a
“bove tli" other : the higher one. de
taching itself from the ruck, glided
•‘down the d uTivity upon the lower
“vineyard, which it now entirely cov
“ers. The question is, who is the
“owner of this vineyard, and who is
“considered the loser?’’
To the 1 Hi tors.
(b \Tt.i:mr \ : It appear* 1» me that
your “Puzzle for lawyer*," in this mor
ning’- Saturday’* Intelligencer, i* • 1
sily solved hy the known maxim ol the
common law, “ H ;/.•/■ r l solum t j •/< rst
usque tu/ ca lumH Tor no interposing
can, in my opinion, ali’er? the tight
thus established. Kespectfully
W ashington, Nov. v!o. V.
ivui.i.k- emcei*.
ROMNEY, DECEMBER 2, 1837^
(i.y- It beet ines our ddty to record the death,
l'v drowning, ol Dr. ROBERT C. TiLDI N»
ofthiscounty. Dr. T. returning, on horse
tuck,from Kidgevillc on Wednesday afternoon
last, to bis residence on Patterson’s (’rock,
and after entering the water ofthat «treani, (to j
cross,) and while bis horse was drinking, it '
may ba presumed, that lie had on Appoplec
tic lit, and, being alone,thus perished. “Peace j
to lus ashes.”
JtpWo give in another colum to-day, a let
ter from the Mayor ot Alton, Illinois, iu rela
tion to the leccnt unfortunate riot in that
place, which resulted iu the death of several
individuals. This atrair ought to be depreca
ted by all intelligent well disposed citizens.
Such acts ought not for n moment to be tole
rated; but punished severely. We are a
people governed by laws, and the laws ought
to he enforced. If the laws are inadequate
to the suppression ofliccntious publications,
they should be made adequate. There is cer
tainly a great defectsoinewhete, eithcrin our
political institutions, iu our laws, or In our
moral feelings. Such a state of things ought
not to be permitted toexistany longer. Their
repetition invites repetition.
These mad fanatics, such as the late Rev.
Mr. Lovejoy, only “rivet the chains and
tighten the cords of slavery, and bring ill up
on the coloured race, whose welfare they pre
tend to advocate. Well may the poor Afri
can—as many of them do—cry out, save US
from om friends.”
We rejoice to notice from the Delaware
Journal that Mr. Southard does not intend
to resign his scat in the Senate of the United
States, but will continue at the post lie has
so long, ably, and honorably filled. The edi
tor remarks--“He has outlived the denun
ciations ofGcn. Jackson, who, in one of hi*
violent communications to Congress, held up
Mr. South mid as a Senator w!k> was violat
ing the will of his constituents by opposing
ms will; he has survived, too, the hostility
of a factious majority in his own State, who
instructed him to resign arid make room for
a political tool of the Executive ; and has liv
ed to sec his State repudiate the doctiines of
Jackion.discard the men who sought to drive
him from his post, and bear the fullest testi
mony 18 the patriotism and virtue of his
course in the Senate."
Crj- It appears that the receipts of the A
inerican Colonization Society lor the month
ending October 20, amounted to $S,03'J 57,
including a legacy of $6,116 60 from the late
Win. H. Ireland, of New Orleans.
CCVMr. Henry Gallagher, the young
man who was hurt at the recent fire iu Rich
mond, died ofliis wounds on the 22nd ult.
Servility or Congress.—See the article
under this head,and read the disgraceful truths
developed by Mr. Fletcher ; and, yet, we are
told, the People govern. As the editor of
the Genius of Liberty remarks “the daring
power of the Executive is hero strongly ex
emplified, and the grave charges made by Mr.
Fletcher are confirmed by the declaration of
Mr. J. ti. Adams, on the floor of Congress,
that the numerous respectable memorials
praying for the establishment of a United
States Hank, was reported upon by the Com
mittee without having been read, or debated,
in Committee. The order from tha White
House was sufficient.”
An intelligent gentleman in Missouri,writ
ing to the editor of the Alexandria Gaxette,
says : “it is generally thought that a great
change in public sentiment has taken place
lately in this state,” and that "at the next e
lcction the Democratic family will wheel out
to the right and left by sections.”
An ArmorRiATE Celebration.—We
are glad to sec that a spirit of charity is up
permost in the minds of those whose party
has recently been victorious in New Yoik.
Instead of appropriating large sums to he was
ted in illuminations, bon-firts, the firing of
cannon, and other noisy but useless ceremo
nii r. the Whigs of Philadelphia have passed
the following noble resolutions :
“R- solved. That the Whigs of the city and
county of Philadelphia will celebrate the re
cent . loiious triumph of Whig principles in
the State i>1 New York, by appropriating the
suin which a Festival (on a liberal scale)
would cost, to the poor of the city and coun
ty. w ithout distinction of party.
Ri -oh ■ I. That as a Town Meeting of our
Demorralic Whig fellow-citizens has Wen
called I'nrthis very purpose, we deem it ex
pedient to leave all the necessary arrange
ment- to be made by them, assuring them of
our cordial co operation in any measures they
may devise.”—Balt. Transcript.
(tr>- Similar resolutions were adopted at a
Whig meeting in the city of Richmond.
An interesting trial took place last week
b« (i re the District Court in Philadelphia. It
was a suit for damages against the West
» :-ester Rail-road Company, by John Evans,
1 i ivtreirjury received by b- itig thrown
I run a cat by the carelessness of the driver.
1 lie Jury tonic! a verdict in favorofthe Plain
fid'Im ill lU’K THOUSAND FIVE HUN
DRED DOLL MIS:
GTE* The circulation of the Farmers’ Rank
"l '< irginia, on the 1st of November was
•W0,9S0, an 1 the specie on hand $| in, I t:j.
y, Mr. Dt'c.GEH, the iimtleinan wounded
in th l ib* duel with Mr. Dhomgooi.e, has
died of hi-t vfoun I.
1'he trov' Ic* rtmonn the western Indians.
A slip from the office of the S*. Louis Bui
’•■tin, dated Nov. 11, says “By late mlorinn
| tion from Fort Leavenworth, nc learn the
fronti -r per,pi > low the Osage River, have
| bm ii endeavoring to raise an excitement in
that •< cti "i ofi1 • State,by expressing alarms
against the 0»ije Indians, many of whom
have «< »r ;<• within the boundaries of the State
with their wiv— and children,for the purtiosc
of hunting, a-ut upon the strength of written
permission .iv-nti m by some of the white
inhabitants redding in the State. Gen. I.u
i cm left Independerioe immediately ©a receiv
log the rumor, with about MO miUia to op
pMi* the aggrcesois. Colonel Kernny com
mandant at Fort Leavenworth, fearing “«nc
rrssarv difficulty, and believing the motives j
of the Indiana to be entiiclv pacific, uuincdi
atelv despatched Captain Summer with «*«
hundred Dragoon*, and a few «u>» 1 •
more, to drive the Indians without the Kum
dary of the State for their hunting purposes,
and to interpose his command, and keep se
parate the whites and Indians. 1 lie circum
stances of the Indians bringing their wives
and children with them, is conclusive evi
dence that thev did not anticipate danger nr
bloodshed, and though the whites had no au
thority to grant permission to the Indians to
hunt within the limits of the btate yet it i
not to be supposed that the poor ignotant In
dians knew that they were encroaching." hen
thev had received pet mission fn'jn
(t is believed however, that all difficulties
have been settled; the Indians retreat. .! to
their awn hunting lands, and the militia to
their homes. The detachment of Dragoons
sent out under Captain Summer was expect
ed at Fort Leavenworth on the 10th or 12th
instant.”
MiTCilKLt ,thc Baltimore pirate.(reput*.!.)
was brought into our city yesterday ,a captive.
He was taken down the bay by the revenue
cutter Dexter. He had on board bis boat •
(the Blooming Youth) about a dozen men. |
six of whom h« said were sailors, and the o- :
thers passengers.—Mobile Fxaminer, 2^o- 1
vember 19.
A fire broke out in the city of Mobile,
on the night of the ISth ult., which corsum- j
ed several dwelling homes and other build
ings, anil destroyed property tu the amount •
of $30,000. The fire w as the result of aeci- ,
dent.
Frrrn IS NatcHfz.—Our late papers as
sert that the city is now rid of the epidemic.
AsoTHtn Dull at \ n ksburc.— l be N.
Orleans Picayune ofthe 16th,says—A gentle
man has informed us that a duel took place
last week at Yirksburg.or in tbe vicinity,be
tween Col. O. Claiborne .brother to the mem- j
her of Congress, and Gen. Foote. I hree ;
shots vvero fired, wounding Claiborne each
' time.
PE N NS YL V A NIA CO N V E NT 1 ON.
The Loco*fbcos and destructives in this as
sembly have been, for several day* past,push
ing resolutions containing approvals of their
doctrines, before the meeting, and daring the
con-ervativc members to meet them on the •
ground of chartered rights. They have bkes
met, and with the proper spirit. On Mon
day last,the loco foco resolutions having been
voted down, Mr. Meredith, a delegate from
Philadelphia city, proposed the following re- i
solution, which was adopted by a vote of 6'J
to II.
'•Resolved, That it is the sense of this con
vention that a charter duly granted under an i
act of Assembly to a Bank or other private
corporation,is when accepted, a contract with
the parties to whom the grant is made; and if
such charter be unduly granted, or subse
quently uiisused, it mar n> avoitlp.l by the
1 ot a court of justice, in due
ol law, and not otherwise, unless in pursu- ;
ance of a power expressly reserved in the
charter itself.”
The recent course of the administration
members of Congress from Illinois, leaves
not the shadow of a doubt as to the future
politics of that State. They proclaim to their
constituents,that the administration has open- '
ly abandoned its principles, and is arraying
itself against the people. Mr. May, in a cir
cular to his constitucnts.says ; that he “is for
burtheuing the soil of Illinois with no Sub- '
Treasuries—no tythe collectors,exacting spe
cie from the people at a tax of 10 per cent.,
thence to he cartpd to Missouri, and there to |
bo “salted down" for the exclusive benefit of
Government Officers.”—Balt. Chron.
THE BANKS IN TENNESSEE.
A committee of the Legislature of Tenncs
see have reported in favor of establishing a
State Bank, with a capital of $5,000,000, to
be owned by the State, and to be made up of
the common School Fund: the State Stock in
the l nion Bank ; the Surplus Revenue (ma
king about $3,ooo.ooo,) and the balance in
five per cent. State scrip. Another ] repo
sition is to establish a State Bank in connee
j tionwith a liberal system of internal improve
ments.— lb.
_
fri' It i* asserted by the New York Advo
cate that Governor Maury voted the entire 1
Whig ticket at the recent election in New
York.
J 03" Mr. Carr Lank, (Whig,) was elcc- '
i ted, on the 13th ultimo. Mayor of the city of I
, St. Louis.
(O* There wet* nKm.t o< ■ t_u.. •_ .e . '
rr fry The negro roan H ARRY, who was I
charged with hating committed a n aj » „„ '
the liody ot a child, (MARGARKT M l
SON) aged II y-ar*. in this county,and then
, murdering her. as he MiPP„*cd, and ,, we
j have heretetore stated.was tri I |a*t Monday
j The gentlemen Justices on the bend, w. re
David l* tR4oNSDr. I(o„i r , v ,N j '
j l>Avn, Gibson, and Tun* Cat
1 IT A DON.
f k The following is the tcslirr.or.r, wl id, we
haree,., R
tr'". n
I could not leave the slightest doubt on the
minds of the Court as to hi* g.,j|t.
I The testimony of Mr* Nrtsov.who
'huightfr Marga
ret left horr.r. between s an 1 m o’clo. k in the
. .norntngtogotoKra,, Caudy s which was
i1 >rf* to ..... hotr«. , that
i»l.e dnl notMurn ir.til she w ,* brought home
m. a bo. .much ... -that will b„ ,,
years old next April. '
2nd. Kv vtC sonv , Witness beimrsw
V '- an.< I. 't
ItbflWCO 10 ,, „c,„fk '
TT’Tl ':"h'...
' ““3 M* *»iloi Will,,,*.',
fear. Wo turned out to bunt Mar
garet and continued at it untiltl •* “***•
Ld heard nothing of her. Hktl M.rg.
retwa. about to leave W.tneasr . hj-... ■
young woman living at the hou« called to
her and told her not to be in a hurry-if.he
Would wait, .he would have romperv 1 >’»'
Richard Kobmaon wa. coming. and *»' C»
j„g the same road. But Margaret did not
stop.
3rd. J J P* M.L. a Witness being .worn.
States he was one with other, that went to
hunt Margaret. He (bund her in the wood,
lying on her face. He called to tho»e at a
distance, that he had found her-at which
Margaret railed tip <* her bands. and asked
where Harry Wasjtwiee. The rest came, and
her Brother asked her how .he came there
She said Harry had brought her there and
rhnuked her. Witness with some others
went ed to take Harry ; when they approach
ed him, he aeked ua.before we said any thing
to him. if they had found the girl. He wa.
answered they had. He a«krd if she wa.
dead. The girl wa* much abused— her bair
was ch'tted very much with blood—her fare
black anil one of her eyes swelled. She Was
found the morning alder she was first misted.
She was found in the woods, about it hundred
yards from the road leading from Caudy's to
Mrs. Nelson**, her Mothrrf, and about hall •
mile from the house of Kvan Candy. There
is no other Harry in the neighborhood, but
James ('audy’S Harry.
Ith. I*0nkNZO \ ei.sosjvmwj •tvoro.‘■to™**
th»* he was one of those who *i» hunting
her with Beall, when Beall called he had
found her. Witness ran to him. Witness
said to Margaret what brought >0*1 her.-’ She
answered Jim Candy's Ham had done it
What for 5 She did not know. He had choak
ed her and stuffed a hank of yarn in hei
mouth. Her head was much cut in four or
five places—her IcB eye much injured, ami
her throat had the appearance of a man's
hand having choaked her. When Harry was
taken he had a drop of blood on his left shirt
strove. Harry said it came off his fingers.
His fingers were examined—they had no
wound on them. The fingers were sound.
Witness is the brother of Margaret.
5th. J \mc« Nixon, a Witness being sworn
state* that he was one of those hunting for
said Margaret. At the call of Beall he went I
up to her. Mr. Nelson asked how she came
there?—She said Harry hail brought her there,
lie ha*l choaked her and hit her. Witness
went with others after Harry. Wlicu they {
got within about 20 steps of him. Harry ask- j
ed if they had found her. They said they
had. He asked if'she was dead. Witness i
saw several stones near said Margaret that
had blood on them. Harry had blood on his j
left sleeve. When we eaine up to Harry we j
passed him and went into the house. We
looked back and saw him, walking off, and \
then went after him. W hen Harry was ta
ken he made no resistance, but submitted
willingly.
6th. W. UHrTTAXCR* a >N itnrs* being;
sworn, states that iu mowing time he was at I
work with Harry, and a girl came along by ;
them—when Harry said he would have con- i
nection with her. it' be got the cbaw» • “*-» j
be had done one so in Winchester.
7th. I). Ki RTi, a Witness being sworn, j
states that the day Margaret was lining, tie |
with Joseph Kern and Harry who were all
living with James Candy, were directed by
Caudy to go to a piece ol new ground to work. (
Harry started first. Witness and Kern went |
on to theplace. They left the house between
8 and 9 o’clock. Between 10 and It Harry
came,staid about 13 minutes and said lie must t
go and stop some hog holes,in the buckwheat j
field, and was gone about an hour. Witness
knows ot no orders Harry had to stop hog
holes. Harry worked all the rest of the day \
with them. Witness thought he w as uneasy •
about something—but did not mistrust him. j
8th. M.sncARLT Xei.sox,a Witness states, ,
she saw Harry the prisoner in the road. He
asked her where she was going. She told 1
him to Mr. Caudy’s. He asked her—How
long will you stay } She replied not long.
She came back on her way home, and saw
him again. He walked along with her a lit
tle piece. Bulled out a fifty cent piece—
showed it to her and asked her if site knew
what that was. She «.KM yes. It was fifty
cent*. He said I will gi.e it you, if you
will go with me. She refused and went on.
He followed witness, picked her up and
thoaked her and carried her into the
woods. She recollects no more. The ipies
tion was asked \V itness, by the Attorney
for the Commonwealth, after she had sta
ted as above, it the prisoner had committed
any other violence. Witness replied sbe did
not recollect any more.
9th. Dr, A. II. Ani.r.xrr.i.p.a Witness be
sworn, states that lie was called to see
Margaret Nelson soon alter she was found.
He examined her lr.-ad and found the skull
broken in three (daces, besides many other
smaher wounds. Upon examining her fur
ther he found that very recently, her oigaus
ot generation had been actually penetrated,
and that there was a laceration of the parts. ’
,oth- James Cavdy, a Witness being
sworn, states that the evening before Marga
nt was mis-ing, H.,rry told Imn tluit (ig,
were getting into the buckwheat field. Wit
nes, told hun that he or we must stop them.
Next morning, W itness told prisoner to go to
"ork in the clearing. Prison, r h it the house
about * o’clock, and Witness saw him no
' e re till night. Alter prisoner w.-s taken,
Itness heard of his stopping the hog hide*.
*\ itness went to the field and examined and
1 ‘ ’ ,‘0'* *'■*■ 'bat he had done any thin.» |>,
,.„„|,„„dtl,,'u„.,
vflla,., ,h.o| Wm |u.lm
dec d.of f rederick county. Marry was to
| M rvf " •'"*"*« until February, *
! . W7,‘ *, ,,t*’r,c* " .n passed upon the Pri»o.
,'7’ ***■ aI*I*«»r**l to bear it with gnat
! I MllVt'r of remorse
" ,sh ****• tould w, observe in his
| countenance. Hei« to lie hung on Farovy
! ys I2rt. or JANUARY m,.x r. between
lU 1‘0ur'< ot l» and 2..‘clock.-Fo, tl,e , ,ffl.
7ulmn AnuU9 W Do.vAi n, | hi Foi
i ■Vurn’i * ...
| r in Li r l), b i ar.iT, E«.p
’ OjTbe great Whig Jubilee at \. w \ .
■ '•»>> w«k,in|.. ifth-n
reran* \■
l#° Mee*tr • B
B
tog of cannon, i i ■
fin •, Illuminati..- , s ■
tl r Ja» mini „t<. . Si
>“ 1*1 a |et*»r p»iTT»»7T! I
| ti«»u» ru«ti-r,. l,tP , , # ^
! Ile,.r»*e».t,*,,., . ,u-M
he decline* a re.elrf., I
Of- Cotigmt torr>% wr ,(j 1
I ton Munnifri .y ■
I
Irctioo, hut nothing r..r - * ^
of the state. The
for Governor an t th« J '
**)’• the li.iltnnoi.. t't,rr,„
more than jrohaHe tt
•Iidat* tin* bneu cL ,
ty. ’ *"* i
EDITORIAL ro.\\ i \T
(t j ln acconlan. c ('
W be the d< ire
on of this State, the p, 3
quiier. w ho is the Sen, ,
in this City, has <h ten
in conjunction with hi .
a Convention of all • , \'5
Newspaper* and |\ n
la. to assemble in the ( 1
t»th of January neit.
W
So do we.—[S. D Int.
TWA of an Erprti>
As t|ie T'.spri'ss rider ^B
phia was lea\ ing that citv ,n
mg of the 21th ult., the ‘ fl
fright and bolted, Is wi„ ;
was thrown, and so’ » N, , v.'W
that he died shortly after. ' 'B
••I thought thy bri.tal-h. ,1 fP hjv» .B
.7 Wedding and u /M«r.(,/_B
does it fall to our lot to record
remarkable act of rrovidence.tJ
of which we arc now calledV, ®
We yesterday annotu cedthr 1
of the sister of our friend AldenJ
ten,at his own house,& this davfl
cord the death of his estima!.le‘»«
lady beloved by all I < I
for her domestic virtues ic otherJ
lent qualities—an event, as we :1
formed almost coincident with the
riage. She was in her accust
health and spirits, dnringthem ■
and, after the marriageceremony
engaged in putting up parcels o
wedding cake for her friends. l'P
suddenly ill, she went to her
and as she rested her head up a
pillow—expired ! The coin, i lea
as touching as the bereavement wi
deeply felt by her numerous fami
friends. How sudden the tnnvj
A cypress wreath for her wedding
land! The theme is one for the min
Urn Si<rourney.—-*" -*-• on
BLOOD SPILT IN CAN ADI
Arrests for high treason aie still
ing on in Canada; and the crisis is
idly approaching. On Friday v.<
two individuals, who had been an
ted, were rescued by an armed l
of 300 men. and four of the K yal
tiecrs wounded ! Military fore *wl
collecting at Montreal. Oncdistricl
country is in open rcbelli >n .igaii
the Queen’s authority.— Gel. SnL
We mentioned the other day ys
of illustration of the ruinous derail
merit of the currency, that the b
rate at which we were abl< to di>p
in this city of a certificate I depis
issued by a Nashville hank • as at
discount of ten per cent. We niij
have added that the next host o:;-r
had was at fifteen per cent, and '.v<*c
now state that the partner oft.,
kcr who purchased that tha t tf
has written to him that lie tears t)
the firm will actually lose ta y :
the transaction* So that ten perrtrl
discounton such paper m iv ’
be better than the current \ r
An intelligent ami apparent.) vm
informed writer in the lk>ste:i
Advertiser, discussing the q"
to the expediency of a preset ‘
: ration, by the Hank ('onventi.'
future day for the resumption '•
eic payments, gives his ojan
the time has not arrived lord'
and tfiat before it can be don1’ >'i
the hazard of doing infinitely :
mischief than good, w e nui't
l>rogress of events—the ship!:.1
our crops—the liquidation ot a
portion of our foreign debts, m l a
munition of the vast aim
due fr oin one j*ort»on ot our o' •' j
another portion, Sir. In the <
his argument, this waiter
belief that it can be sb a\\ u ' 1
single bank in the < itv o! I :
has more coin in it- vaults t!> m 1 ‘
banks in the rity and Mat
V rk. or than the wh >U- of t!>
in the six New England Stab *
appears to us to l.e i remark i
sti iking fact.—Jo.
f.nrohir..— (hir ieauer* may
her that on Ins visit to K
Au.m t l-.st, Mr. Webster '
toast:—
‘The state of New York: ■
if y 'tr vill”
I o w hi. h the company •n*"1 o
the following toast :—
*' I he state of New Yojk : shi
Since the election, the Mono c
t.v ( eutral Committee have v
Sir. V*. the following letter:—
Dear Sir ;—
' rh»* st if) 'ii'Ninv Y.-i V : S11 T> 1