•very proof of it upon tfa« part of the North. H<
•eea the evidence* of agitation and unholy ambi
tion instigating division upon the part of the South
but in the North nothing but a meek, loving
chriatian temper, willing to make every sacrifice
that conscience would permit, to continue uni
ted with their brethren in the South!! Bu
what is most to be regretted is, that he hai
condescended to change issues which, he mus
have seen, required to be met, and which, i
met fairly, he must have perceived, wouh
lead to inferences different from those which h<
drew. It is matter of regret that so ardent a spir
it should not have manifested sympathies on botl
sides, and that he should have so strongly develop
ed a bias, which guided his reasonings and hii
feelings to one only. Why did ho single out Dr
Capers from his Southern brethren in the minis
try? One cannot help believing that it was because
he supposed that Dr. Capers stood committed be
fore the church to oppose, or at least not to ap.
prove, the election of a bishop who was a slave,
holder. I do not allow that Dr. Capers would adrnii
this conclusion to be true, but his authority hai
been quoted again and again by those who oppose
such an election; but many of us know Dr. Capon
too well to suppose that ho will feel honoured bj
the odious comparison which this selection, proves
to have been made. Does A.C. believe that Bishop
Andrew should have been deposed, if he was un
acceptable to less than a majority of all the mem
bers of the Methodist Episcopal Church in the
United States! He shows that he does not, when
in his first letter, he says that a bishop should not
be continued in his office, “ who has lost his influ.
ence with any considerable portion, or at least a
majority of the church.” Here lies the very es
sence of the question, and he has given it the “go
by.” There was no effort made to ascertain
whether a majority of the members of the Metho
dist Episcopal Church wished to depose Bishop
Andrew because he was “connected with slave
tj . mere waa no prool introduced to show it,
and I feel convinced that not one fifth part of the
whole membership would have desired it, if the
vote had been taken, and they had been left with
out external bias, to decide for themselves; nor
do I believe that a majority would now vote for it,
although the party lines have been drawn, and the
fact no doubt was, as it was charged upon the ma
jority in the General Conference, that the preach
ers themselves, whilst professing to believe that
slave-holding was not sinful, and that Bishop An
drew was so holy a man, and zealous a minister of
the gospel, and efficient a bishop, and that they
were only yielding to the prejudices of the people
whom they represented, were in fact the authors
of the agitation, and the persons to whom he was
not acceptable because he was connected with sla
very—they were also afraid, or unwilling to en
counterthe abolitionists proper, or “ immediatists”
as A. C. calls them ; and knowing that the great
mass of the members were quiet and orderly, and
would easily he satisfied by their explanations,
they seized upon Bishop Andrew, as “ a rain caught
by the horns in the thicket,” and sacrificed him to
the moloch of abolitionism, that they might propi
tiate the favour of his worshippers. They wished
on a tormer occasion, when slavery was the sub
ject in debate, to make a similar sacrifice. I know
what I say, and am prepared to prove it
But A. C. also creates a false issue,when he argues
as though the retention of a slave-holding bishop,
was the only ground upon which the South propos
ed a separate organization. If the question had
never been raised it would have been a matter of
no consequence ; but, does he not know, that in
discussing that question, an important, nay, a vital
principle has become involved ! the question now
is, whether the slave-holders in the South, arc
followers of Christ, or whether they are deceived
sinners, and hypocrites. He also asks the question
whether slavery, which involves all the horrors of
the domestic slave-trade, and the violations of
chastity known to be consequent on it, is not sin
ful! What has that to do with it 1 1h a slaveholder
who does not violate the law of chastity, nor sun
der the ties of domestic relations by selling his
slaves to negro-traders, or purchasing them to sell,
guilty of these crimes, simply because he hulds
slaves, although he discharges his duty to them
faithfully according to the precepts of the word of
God! Why have you connected them ! Ah, my
brother, look to your own heart,—remember it is
deceitful,—take the bible for your guide,—read
especially the 13th chapter of 1st Corinthians, pray,
pray much for love, and then exhort us, and I hope
it will be in a better spirit; he who writes these
lines, would not for all the slaves who were ever
bought and sold, write one word to vindicate a
division of the church, if he did not believe it
would be for the glory of God, and the good of
souls. Ei.ihc.
Sept. 20ih, 1644.
For ihi Southern Christian Advocate.
THOUGHTS FOR THE TIMES. No. 2.
Mr. Editor,—We have already seen two distinct
propositions for compromise rejected by the North.
The only modification ever allowed at any stage of
the proceedings during the conference, was the
acceptance of the resolution adopted as a substi
tute for “an affectionate request to resign.” The
reason of this change is obvious, and argues any
thing rather than a spirit of conciliation. “The
substitute” had several things to recommend it.
An affectionate request recognised some right of
judgment and of conscience in the lJishop ; it im
plied the right to refuse without an arraignment
“ in terroretn.” It did not meet the case, was not
strong enough. A resolution declaring “ the
sense” of the conference suited the actuating pur
poses far better. It was ambiguous,—might be
considered advisory or compulsory,—could be con
strued conveniently, according as a man had to go
to Texas, or might remain in New York,—allowed
room for debate,—for soft talk to the South about
Northern moderation, the mildest possible action,_
the painful necessity of the case, while it effectu
ally served all the ends of the most rabid ultraism.
On this resolution they never faltered. The divi
sion of the church could not balance the loss of a
few abolitionists. The loss was unaufforable,_
the division, iu my opinion is desirable, if justice
were the price of union.
Let it be noted that there was no spirit of con
petsion, conciliation or compromise, among the
majority. No offer was made by them, none ac
cepted. Stern, relentless, reckless,—two to one,
; all power in their hands, they spurned all delay,
refused all arrangement, and consummated their
cherished plan amid the reprobations of the com
munity that witnessed the deed.
Since the adjournment there has been much
' deprecation of division. The Christian Advocate
1 and Journal represents it as “ an evil and bitter
; thing,” and moans most lustily over the prospect
' But their tears and sighs are like the remorse of
I the murderer. The one cannot restore life to the
| slain, nor the other abate the ru in the weeperi
have wrought. Oh unity, where were the charms
that Northern editors and writers have seen in thy
1 face, when they sacrificed thee to a prejudice!
■ "Ilow blessings brighten as they take theii
1 flight!” But with all their prayers for peace,—
, all their sighs over disunion,—all their delight ai
the suggestion of a compromise from the South,
mark it well, the majority and their adherents have
shown no relenting. There is no confession,—no
repentance,—no proposition for reconciliation. No,
no, the South must submit,—" make bricks with
out straw,”—endure their burdens in silence,—
and for the sake of a union whose embrace ii
death, surrender rights, usefulness and all. Ami
forsooth, because we will not acknowledge " the
infallibility of the pope” and claim the right to
judge for ourselves, we are taunted as an ill-tem
pered, prayerless, graceless set, at war with
Heaven and the North. It is most provoking for
those who have outraged our feelings, and betray
ed our confidence, or for those who sympathize with
the workers of the mischief, to arrogate to them
selves the right of advising us. For them to talk
of peace and brotherly love, and exhort us to
come up to the help of the Lord ! Why don’t ye
do it yourselves 1 We have not departed from the
faith. Did me insult the North in the person of a
bishop, harmless and blameless 1 Did we violate
the Discipline ! Did we reject all compromise ?
Did toe shako hands with the abolitionists and help
them to do their anti-christian, lawless work ! Did
toe array the church against the state 1 Exhort
us to peace, when you have proclaimed war ! Be
seech us, by our love of unity, by the memory of
the past, to subscribe your heresies in church gov
ernment ! Tender-hearted aggressors, you cannot
give us up ! Have ye read of those who white
washed the tombs of the prophets their fathers
killed ! You are more inconsistent; you profess
to deplore a ruin which you worked out yourselves,
which you aggravate by your impertient counsel,
and yet glory in the deed whose effects you pretend
to deprecate.
Now, a word to the wise. We ask no advice
from those who have injured us. VVo need none.
We are in no strait. Our duty is plain. Division
is inevitable. Tho fiat lias gone forth. The vani
ty of somo men would be most offensive were it
not ludicrous. When it is remembered that the
General Conference embodied the wisdom and ex
perience of the whole church, and that the wisest
and the best among them consulted among them
selves privately and in committee, and that the epis
copacy united with them ; that they talked and de
bated and tasted and prayed, and all to no purpose,
now for obscure individuals, ora few preachers (as
in tho Wesley Chapel station) to come before the
world with the declaration that the caso is one of
little or no difficulty, and that compromise is easy,
it is intolerable presumption. And then to aggra
vate tho provocation what do they propose ? Why
in the one case what was substantially submitted
to and rejected by the conference. Alr.s ! for the
abortions of an imaginary wisdom. But the
genius of Dr. Booth has eclipsed the glory of our
oldest luminaries. By tho way, is he a yankee
graft upon a Southern stock ? No abolition bishop
in the North, no slaveholding bishop in the South.
What simplicity of arrangement is here ! A happy
equilibrium surely. But will the Dr. consent that
the General Conference shall declare its “sense"
that one or two of the present incumbents shall
desist from the exercise of their office, because
they are shrewdly suspected of tho abolition taint 1
Or will he endorse that the lawless prejudices of
I the North shall lie dormant? and that no wolf in
j sheep's clothing shall enter by the door or climb
j up somo other way into the episcopacy? How
I "’ill he bind men who have proven themselves too
; strong for the Discipline, and whose love of union
| is subordinate to their anti-slavery feelings 1 Will
he make a law ? What is law to a disorgauizer?
| Will he pass ; record, and print a compromise act ?
j Who among his Northern friends cares for a com
promise,—when “the great evil” as they pretend
| *8 coining upon them ? I would as soon expect
1 to hind an elephant with cobwebs, as abolitionism
i with laws, covenants and promises. It is the
[ >nau among tho tombs ; he cannot be bound, and
| no man can tame him. His name is Legion. And Dr.
I Booth, potent as he undoubtedly is, will never
i bring him to his right mind.
I The South loved the unity of Methodism, boast
ed of her organization, and from the beginning has
borne interference and insult, and at any time
during “the twelve days’ debate” would have
accepted any offer which would have left her her
good name, her usefulness, and an open door to all
the people; but now the Rubion is passed. She
will accept no compromise. If the groat men
of the North desire union,—let them call a confer
ence,—rescind the resolution in Bishop Andrew’s
case,—confess they did Harding injustice,—ex
punge the chapter on slavery from the discipline,
declare solomuly and conscientiously before God
; and the country that slavery is a civil institution
[ witli winch they have nothing to do,—denounce
J abolitionism as a spirit of evil, and then, and not
j till then, will we listen to terms of union.
Another uenoral Conleronce, a separata juris,
disction, is demanded by self-respect,—by the laws
of the land,—by the spirit of the people,—by the
claims of the negro,—by our responsibilities to
j God in the world to come. The Hands, the Booths,
i the A. C.’s—all perhaps mean well, but they have
j reckoned without their host. The nick of time
I has past. Their taunts and their tears,—their ac
cusations and their proposals,—are all impotent and
vain. If their new found zeal for union,their
sudden horror of separation, had been as active and
eloquent as now, when the majority were scattering
the bones of Methodism at the grave’s mouth, as
I “ when one cutleth and cleaveth wood upon the
I earth, then might the Suuth have recognised
i them in the character they have assumed, as friends
of the whole church ; but now their entreaties to
us to submit, we consider as but little better than
| the winnings of hypocrisy,—the contemptible pu
lings of a mortified vanity.
j I have been anticipated in some things by articles
! in your last paper, that I intended to introduce
j in this number. More anon. Clkoi-has.
i -
Por thfc Southern Christian AdroctU).
COKESBURV DISTRICT, S. C. CONF.
| Dear Brother Wightman,—Having completed
an entire round of quarterly meetings, and the
resolution* in favour of a separate church organiza
tion, on the plan adopted at the General Confer,
ence having been adopted at each, been forwarded
to you, it is now too late to avail ouraelvea of your
advice in reference to the abbreviation of our com
munication?. We had feared in the outset that, a
constant repetition of the same views would be
found tedious to the readers of the Advocate, and
troublesome to the Editor. I suppose the novel
circumstances in which the church is placed,
must be an apology. 1 cannot but think it desirable,
however, as we are all of one mind and heart, that
the language of excitement should give place to
the calm and firm attitude of those who know they
are right. With regard to the Cokesbury district,
I can truly say, that we are opposed to secession
from the Methodist E. Church, in form and ir
name. We stand where we always have stood, on
the platform of original Methodism, with its disci,
plinary compromises on the subject of slavery.
The Northern portion of the church have violated
these, and our separation from them is any thing
else than a secession. Our official members have
generally attended the quarterly meetings, in
which, according to the advice of the Southern del.
egates, the subject of a division of the Church, its
necessity and importance, was brought up and dis
cussed. Our resolutions in favour of a separate
ecclesiastical jurisdiction, founded on the action oi
the late General Conference, and the spread ol
abolition principles in the church North, were
adopted with a unanimous voice, and upon sober,
second thought. If we considered it at all neces
sary to invite our beloved Bishop Andrew by a
formal resolution to attend our next conference
and preside over its deliberations, in connection
with the venerable Bishop Soule this would he done
instantly. But we hardly deem it necessary. He
has sufficient acquaintance with the spirit which
actuates his Southern brethren, to know that he
will meet with nought but the most sincere wel
come and hearty congratulations.
Notwithstanding the interest felt by the Church
in the general subject which has agitated both
North and South, we have not neglected that duty
which we consider of paramount importance; with
in a few months past, the work of God has been
rapidly spreading, and hundredt have been converted
The preachers have been in the Spirit; Christ
ians have been strong in faith, and parents and
children rejoiced together in the love of God. The
meeting at Mt. Vernon, of which brother Penn gave
you some account, was signally blessed. Our four
days' meeting at Aiken, our Newbury and Laurens
camp-meetings have, added much to the Church.
Our Sandy Springs meeting, near old Pendleton,
from which 1 have just returned, was a time of
gracious visitation from God ; between sixty and
seventy whites, and upwards of thirty coloured,
joined the church on trial; and numbers were
converted. And while we have been abroad in the
district, attending to the duties assigned us, our
local brethren have not been idle. Within a few
miles of this place, at a protracted meeting, con
ducted by them, with some assistance from brother
Crook, the ministor in charge of the circuit, they
| have not only succeeded in bringing many to the
foot of tho cross, but also in laying a solid founda
tion fora large society, some seventy or eighty hav
! mg been received into the church, still, wo are in
: expectation of greater displays of divine goodness,
j Our fervent prayers to tho great head of the Church
are for the universal revival of primitive Chriati
j anity ; and for greater purity among us, as minis
[ ters of the cross of Jesus Christ. Hard sayings of
[ each other, or bitter words in relation to each other,
! should never mark our course, but let us live and
love as brethren, that the peace of God may ever
abide with us.
Believe me your affectionate brother and fellow
labourer in a peaceful gospel.
Nicholas Talley.
Cokesbury, 8. C. Sept., 25, 1844.
For th« Southern Chrietlan Advocate.
A NEW YORK CAMP-MEETING: AN AB
OL1TION CONVERSATION.
Xew York, Sept. 7, 1844.
Dear brother Wightman,—Having recently al
tended a camp-meeting at Sing Sing, held for th
Methodists ot this city, I propose, through your it;
diligence, to give your readers a short account!
some things which 1 saw and heard.
On Wednesday, 4th September, I left the cit
on board the steamer Columbus, with an immensi
crowd, who, like myself, were on their way to th
camp-rneeting. Our boat glided along the fai
famed Hudson, a distance of thirty miles, to th
State Prison “ Sing Siug,” where we landed, an
in an open wagon ascended a long sleep hill, pass
ed through the beautiful village of Sing Sing, sit
ualed on a high hill on the eastern shore, and com.
pletely overlooking for miles up and down, this
noble river. Immediately back of this village, in
a remarkably fine grove of oak, hickory, poplar
and ash, the camp-ground is located ; the grove is
so thick, and the foliage so dense, that they have no
need of any other shade. The tents are all of
sail-cloth, very regularly and tastefully arranged,
forming in tho centre a hollow square, sufficiently
large to contain the large congregation in atten
dance, which was estimated at from 10,000 to
15,000 persons. From this square they have
streets regularly laid out, (running in every direc
tion) with their names and numbers as in the city.
I suppose there about 200 tents, and, probably,
first and last, fifty preachers on the ground. The
preaching was plain, practical, and pointed, and in
the intervals, I was gratified to find that instead of
idle visiting, walking about, and trifling conversa
tion, there were several prayer meetings going on
in the tents set apart for this purpose ; such as
“ the Bethel prayer meeting,” the “ German Mis.
sion prayer meeting” &c., in which professors of
religion, with a few exceptions, participated, and
where there appeared to be very much of religious
enjoyment. I went into one of these tabernacles,
where prayer was being made, and felt, in my soul,
that the heavenly shcchinah, for the time, rested
upon it; it was the tent of a sister l’almer, better
known under the soubriquet of “ the Shepherdess,"
who herself called the meeting and was in fact the
moving, acting spirit of the occasion. This lady,
as 1 learned, is the life and soul of active piety in
the community in which she dwells. Her meeting,
on this occasion, assumed the character of an ex
perience meeting. I heard several persons speak
in a clear and distiiK-t manner of their full adoption
into the liberty of the children of God. Indeed
sanctification of soul, body and spirit to God, seem,
ed to be the great object of concern, and many
spoke of their present enjoyment of this blessing;
and from what I have seen and heard, I think this
peculiar doctrine of our church is held forth more
constantly as the Christian’s privilege, and more
earnestly sought after by our brethren, in some
parte here, than with us; while in some other
peculiarities of Methodism, aneh aa free seats,
kneeling in prayer, all the congregation singing,
simplicity of dreaa and manner, &c., I must believe
the great conservative principles of Methodism are
with ua. Their police is very strong and vigilant,
snd their regulations strict and excellent. At 10
o’clock P. M. the bell rings, when all public wor.
is closed, and every man must provide himself with
lodging or leave the ground. By this means the
most perfect order is maintained, and you feel as
secure as if you were in the city with barred doors
But while 1 saw and hoard much at this meet
ing that gave me great pleasure, I also heard some
things, which tome were neitherpleasant nor profit
able. You will, no doubt, surmise abolition ! Yes,
abolition in its most bigoted character, and this
too in New York. To use the words of our good
and afflicted Bishop, I too have become a man ol
strife. I had hoped when I left Nsw England, 1
had got clear of this war of words, which I en
countered at almost every corner; but in this 1
was disappointed ; for at this meeting, I found, ai
least, two or three who sympathize deeply, oi
rather loudly with the poor down-trodden, half-fee
slave of the South. In the evening I took my seat
in the preachers’ tent, where there were twelve oi
fifteen persons present listening to a conversation
between the Rev. D. D. V. and the Rev. D. C
on the one part, and a member of the Michigan
Conference on the other, all of whom claim to have
been, at some period, travelling Methodist preach*
ers at the South* The Rev. D. D. V. says, some
twenty years ago he travelled two or three circuit!
in Mississippi; he is now a member of the New
York Conference. The Rev. D. C. has been,
some few years past a member of the Georgia
Conference, but has recently taken a transfer
North, for very sufficient reasons, and is now, as a
brother here expresses it, seeking a settlement.
These two persons united in denouncing not only
the Methodist Church in the South, but the whole
polity of the South, Church and State, in the
most monstrous and unequivocal terms. No doubt
the latter felt under special obligation to show his
Northern friends that Georgia gold had not cor
rupted his anti-slavery purity, although that gold
was as badly “connected with slavery” as Bishop
Andrew. Mr. D. V. stated in the conversation,
that in South Carolina, all the land is held by the
aristocracy, who hold from 1000 to 10,000,15,000,
or 20,000 acres, and no poor man can, by any means,
either for love or money induce them to sell one
foot of this land. He further said, according to
the constitution of South Carolina, no man could
| take a seat in the Legislature who did not own at
j least one thousand acres of land in fee simple,
! thereby excluding all but the favoured aristocracy
from posts of honour or profit, and all this
great political evil, he affirmed, grew out of the
institution of slavery.
When I could no longer forbear, I proposed a
few questions to the Rev. Messrs. D. V. and 1).
C. The questions and answers were in substance
as follows. After they had admitted slavery to be
an institution of the State, over which the church
i had no cohtrol, I asked, 1st. What would you have
Methodist preachers in the South do? Answer, I
would have them take a stand, and admit no man
to, and exclude every man from the church who
did not at once either free his slaves, or pay them
regular wages,as hired men. Question 2d. Why
did you not stay in the South and take this stand ?
Answer, Because I would expose myself, and do
no good ? Question 3d. Why could you do no
good ! Answer, Because of the conduct of Meth
odist preachers, who are the great barriers in the
way of the gospel to the slave, preaching as they
do, a spurious gospel Question 4th. What
would you have Southern Methodist preachers do,
follow your example ? Answer, Y'es. Question
5th, And leave the poor negro to perish without
the gospel ? Answer, He would be better without
any gospel, than with half a gospel, such as is now
I preached to him.
J I have given the above brief, disjointed, but true
sketch of a very protracted and some what excit
ing conversation, in ordor to give you some know,
ledge of the tender mercies of some Northern
abolitionists, towards their brethren in the South ;
and also to snow the tendencies of opinion, even
out of New England. But 1 am happy to believe
that this bitter spirit obtains to a limited extent
among the lay members. Indeed, as far as 1 have
been able to learn, many of the laity are on the
other Bide, and especially so in this city, where I
have heard it more than hinted, and by strong mem
bers too, that if the church divides, there will be
found even here, Northern and Southern churches,
and that ministers of Southern sentiments will
be invited to serve them, in some cases.
I Reflecting on the sentiments of these abolition
i gentlemen, about tbe half gospel, spurious gospel,
no gospel, &c. I could but think, what a pity these
modern discoveries had not been known to such
deluded men as the venerable John Honour, who
fell the first martyr to the missionary work among
; the negroes on Pon Pon ; to the Rev. John Bunch,
| who for years together walked the sickly banks of
; the Santee, preaching four and five times each
I Sabbath, and catechising the children, through the
| week, until overtasked nature sunk, at length, and
he died in the work ; to the Turpins, Nippers,
Davis’s, with others who might, had they been pro.
perly taught by our illuminati, have been still living
men, and perchance mighty philanthropists, at least
as far as wind goes. They might have professed
an infinity of concern for the negro, and mean
while kept clear of the ugly rice.swamps, cotton,
fields, river-fogs and malaria. In some pleasant
station in a rich city or pretty village, with refined,
intelligent congregations, comfortable churches,
good pay, pure air, aud not a great deal of wearing*
out-work to do, they might have talked eloquently
about the black man’s condition, and cheaply de
claimed about what ought to be done. But, it is
well; they rest from their labours and their works
do follow them, and thousands of converted negroes
will bo in heaven as stars in their crowns of re
joicing. Devoted men, their witness is with God,
and their record on high, although we have lived to
see the day when Methodist preachers can allow
themselves to sneer at their toils, depreciate their
labours, and insult their memories. Let us be con
tent, however, for it is after all, a small thing to
be judged of man's judgment. We know what
sort of gospel is carried to the black man’s humble
cabin by Southern ministers, and what kind of
fruit it bears. And I rejoice to perceive that it is
the fixed resolve of Southern Methodists to estab
lish a separate organization sooner than suffer their
negro missions to be touched. With manifold op
portunities afforded to me, during the past summer,
to form a correct judgment of the state of things
in the church North, it is my deliberate conviction
that a division of the M. E. Church is not only ab
solutely necessary, but exceedingly desirable, if
not to Northern brethren, yet, at least, to every
right-minded, true-hearted Southern Methodist
Yours affectionately,
„ Wtt. Maxiib.
A WELL-MERITED AMD WELL-TIMED HONOR.—At
the late Commencement of Transylvania Universi
ty, the honorary degree of D. D. was conferred on
the Rev. James O. Andrew of Georgia,—the es
emplary and pious Bishop of the Methodist Giscopal
Church, who was recently proscribed by the
Northern members of the Conference as a Southern
slaveholder. How short-sighted mo the proscrip
tions of men, especially when marked by that phar
asaical, self-conceited feeling," stand aside,for I am
holier than thou !” and how little such self approv
ing proscribes consider or understand the sublime
moral of that great text, “ the ttone which the buil
ders rejected, the same shall become the head of the
comer." If Bishop Andrew were capable of
feeling mere worldly triumph, in a matter so painful
to his church and his country,—of forgetting the
calamities of that church and country to think of
himself,—he will have cause enough; for it is
inevitable, that the generous people of the South_
for whom he has suffered, rather than for himself_
will never forget that lie is the great Representa
tive of their cause, their character, thoir proscrip
tion, and their vindication. So far as the future
may be judged of by the past, it is indeed fortunate
—nay surely providential!—that his lot and its
trials have fallen on one so well calculated to bear
them as they should be—and one, too, whose whole
life rebukes this wanton outrage on him and the
South—for
“ this Bishop
Hath bore his faculties so meek,—hath been
So clear in his great office, that his virtues
Will plead like angels, trumpet-tongued, against
The deep damnation of his taking off.”
South Carolinian,
(IUpor(«d for Um Southern Clirtaiian Advocate.]
Statement of tbe Charteoton Cotton Market.
October 1, 1844.
Since our last report, our cotton market has been
active, and sales readily made at low prices. It
seems to be the dispositon of buyers not to hold back,
but take the current prices, and work off tbe
article as speedily as possible. We quote ex
tremes at from 4 1-2 to 6 3-4. The ordinary kind
is much neglected, whereas the better class is
sought after.
ADVOCATE OFFICE.
RECEIPTS.
to- The Treasurer of the Publishing Committee acknowledges
the receipt of the Subscription price of thie paper from the follow
in- persons:—
Mrs. Martha Scott, Q. Chreitiberg, J. Johnston, S.
M’Lane, Charleston.
Maj. A. Jones, Leesville, S. C.; W. R. Spann, #7,
Abbe toil, Ala.
By Rev. A. M'Ctrrquodale,—W. F. Hutchison, New
Market; J. S. Harrison, Kirkseyst Roads, S. C.
By Rev. C. Raiford,—W. H. H. Tucker, (N. S.)
Milledgville; T. Smith, (N. S.) Sanderaville, D. Har
ris, *6, Davisboro; Mrs. E. M’Bride, $6,75, W. Dorch,
Sanderaville, Ga. Less 81,75. Very much obliged
to you.
By Rev. A. R. Danner,—M. R. Livingston, Van
ces Ferry, S. C.
Mrs. /. B. Oakley, $2, New-York.
By Rev. J. E. Evans,—Rev. S. Dozier, Wrights
boro’, Ga.
By N. Blue, P. M.,—H. Wilkins, $8, Montgomery,
Ala.
By T. Simonton, P..M.,—J. D. Patrick, Salmons
ville; C. Hendricks, Athens. Ga.
NOTICES.
The subscriber acknowledges the receipt of Fifty
Dollars for Min-ions, from the Edgefield Circuit, through
the Rev. A. M'Corquodale.
Sept. 28, 1844.
W. M. WlOHTMaK,
Assist. Treaa’r.
Annual Announcement of tbe
MEDICAL COLLEGE OF GEORGIA.
Medical Colleoe op Georgia, 1
Augusta, July, 1844. j
THE Trustees of the Medical College of Georgia,
announce that the thirteenth course oi lectures
will be commenced on the second Monday (the 11th) of
November next.
They here allude, with great satisfaction, to the an
nual Report of their Faculty, at the last Commencement;
which shows, that from the first session, the number of
Students has uniformly increased, and with this increase
of numbers, the Classes have preserved their character
for intelligence and gentlemanly deportment—that the
last Class, numbering 140, had dispersed, without a sin
gle instance of disorderly conduct, and bad recommend
ed themselves to the good will and kind attention of our
citizens.—And the Trustees will not forbear suggesting,
that while their Institution is as amply furnisned with
the facilities of instruction, in every department, as any
other in the country, and with a Faculty of tried profes
sional ability, and of unquestioned moral worth, watch
ing over its interests with a parental devotedness and
zeal, increasing with its increasing prospetity—its loca
tion in the City of Augusta, offers inducements to pa
rents and guardians, not to be overlooked. Its connec
tion, by rad-roads and stages, with every part of the
Southern Country, insures a prompt communication
with Students, in case of necessity; the expenses of
living are moderate; but especially is the location favor
able to the preservation of morals. Seats are provided
for the Students, in each of the Churches; here are few
lemptutiont lo dissipation so freely offered in large
cities, and the public opinion of this well-ordered com
munity is a wholesome restraint upon them; and it is
hut an act of justice to our Facu.ty, to say that their
intercourse with the Students has ever been such as to
encourage them to regard tbe Faculty as their friends
and counsellors.
Board, in respectable private families, can be obtained
at from $12 to 815 per month.
1 he Department or Practical Anatomy la under th»
apecial charge of the Profeasor of Anatomy, and of
Dr. Henry F. C ampbeli., the Demonatrator. Thia
department ia amply furniahed with material* on aa
advantageous terms aa in any other College. The
ticket to this department must be taken once, at least,
prior to graduation.
Clinical Lectures will be delivered in the City Hos
pital, as usual. Surgical operationa will be performed
gratuitously, if the patients are allowed to be brought
j before the Class.
Professor Garvin, of the Chair of Therapeutics, is
now in Europe, but will return before the commence
ment of the Lectures.
CHARLES J. JENKINS,
Prxsid't Board or Trustees.
j QUALIFICATIONS FOR THE DEGREE.
| "No Student shall be an eligible Candidate fertile
I Degree of Doctor of Medicine, until he shall have at
tended two full Courses of Lectures in this, or one in
this and one in some other Medical Institution, in ad
dition to the usual private reading in Medicine : and
shall have delivered to the Deun of the Faculty an
I original Thesis on some raedidul subject, one month
previous to the Annual Commencement. In no case
shall a Student of immoral chutacier be admitted to
examination.’'
FEES.
For the full Coarse, ;| |00 00
Practical Anatomy, when taken, • 10 00
Matriculation, first course only, - 5 00
FACULTY.
G. M. NEWTON, M. D., Professor of Anatomy.
L. A. DUGAS, M. D., Professor of Physiology and
Pathological Anatomy.
ALEXANDER MEAN'S, M. D., Professor of Chem
istry and Phurmacy.
1. P. GARVIN, M. D. Professor of Therapeutics and
Materia Medica.
PAUL F. EVE, M. D., Professor of the Principles and
Practice of Surgery.
L. D. FORD. M. D. Professor of the Institutes and
Practice nf Medicine.
JOSEPH A. EVE, M.D. Professor of Obstetrics and
Diseases of Women and Infants.
U. F. CAMPBELL, M. D., Demonstrator of Anato
■V
SHACKELFORD * BESSENT,
*• *• IlifUUOH,
A. J. IIMUlf,
CBUTTUAli WHARF,
( charleston.
CAUTION.
JOHN Q. Phi AK.K, a local preacuer, left hie I
in Con .vayboro' circuit, knowing tuat charge* exteted
again*t him, and that a committee uaJ heeu called to in
vestigate them Since hi* departure, he haa been tried,
and expelled from the cuurcu. it i* believed that he u
Sone to Ueorgia or Florida, and aa he hold* hi* been**,
he may attempt to iinpoee himself on the unwary.
William C. Clark,
Preacher in charge,
Con way boro’ Ct.,
Cmwayboro', Aug. 31, 1844. S. C. Conf.
genIralconference debated
KliPOill' of Donate* m tue General Conterenc* of
the M. hi. Church, held in tne city of New fork,
1314. Price 33cent*. Just received and tor *ale by
John IV. dror, 240 iking street.
MEDICAL LECTURES.
Southern B. M. Collet* at tfonjth, Ol.
The Board ot Trustee* of this College, hare the
pleasure of announcing to their 'I ‘fiirmpsfruii n a*vI
Botanic friends, and to the public general!/, that the
t iflk Annual course of lectures in this Institution will
commence on the lirst Monday in -No cumber next, and
close on tne second Saturday in f eoruary following.
The following gentlemen have been duly elected
appointed to conduct the chairs assigned to each respec
tively, as follows, during the ensuing session_ r
J. to. Comings, M. D., Professor of Anatomy and
Surgery, ggQ
G. J. Cook, M. D., Professor of Physiology and
Pathology, ,g
J. T. Cox, M. D., Professor of Institutes and
Practice, jg
H. M. Price, M. D., Professor of Obstetrieke and
Diseases of Women and Children, 1(
J. Sinclair, M. D., Professor of Materia Medica
and Therapeutics, 15
P. McIntyre, M. D., Professor of Chemistry and
Medical Botany, 15
Matriculation Ticket, g
Graduation, after a satisfactory examination and
Thesis at the close of the second course, 85
By authority of the Board,
. „ A. M. D. Kino, President.
L. Bankston, Sec’ry.
N. B. Gentlemen desiring further information will
address a letter post-paid to P. McIntyre, Dean.
AVnyrt, Oa., August, 1844. 8w
HENRY & DEAN,
Attorneys at Law and Solicitors in Equity
SPA R TA .\B UR OH C. U., S. C.
THE undersigned will practise ih co-partnership in
the Courts of Law and Equity for bpartanburgh
District, and attend the sittings of the Courts in Union,
Laurens and Greenville. Any business entrusted to
their charge will meet with the same prompt attention
they have bestowed on their clients for the last twenty
years. Having transacted business for most of the
Merchants in Charleston, they refer generally to *8a*r
old clients.
JAMES EDWARD HENRY.
H. J. DEAN.
CARRIAGE MANUFACTORY.
A Large assortment of CARRIAGES, of every de
scription, is kept constantly on hand, of our own
manufacture, and will be sold at a small advance from
coe* r , S. & J. GILBERT.
Went worth-street. 3^
HOLT & ATKINSON,
COMMISSION MKH CHANTS
Au Holt, ;
R. A. 8. Atkinson.*
Savannah, Ca.
Charleston Price* currant, September 30#
BAGGING.
Hemp, 4, i«. yar<1.15a 17
Tow,......Ha 17
BALE llOPR.Ih.6 a 7
BACON. Ilsms, Ih..7 a g
S"*™***.. e 41
b!£^-.•*•»*
.8
MsSfe.°
men uoauiiL. 9 a W
No. 1........... 61 a "
“.•"N** Tork,.5 a 09
LARD, lb.."6! ; s
LEAD, Pig and Bar.| a QO
LLME.Htone, bbl.go e 1
LUMBER (kusni Kawed)
While Pine, clear,...JK s 87
Merchantable,.„J6 a M
P. P. in rafts,.7 a 8
Steam Mill,.jj a g
Shingles, per M.4 a 6
Slaves, red oak,.go •
molasBeh, no.« aS
Havana, Ac., sweet,.. 23 a ‘<4
Muscovado,. 96 a 91
Tar, Wilmingiou,....l s 1 SO
—,Georfaiowu,.OHO a UO
J?1*1*. -:..31 a *
Turpentine, soft... .JO
.. a 70
Spirits Turpentine, falto a 00
—.oo. oio.urh’bn«,u’.*
.. « a I Whale,.....00. *0
Spermaceu.80 a 00
• •»
BREAD,
butter/
G<>«hea, Prim#, lb.14 a 15
Inferior......... 10 a 10
*P*rm, lb..30 * 31
*- RarltMtOn Ln&ris* ml Ilk mi
harleston made tal. .* 10 a 00
Northern,. in * 11
CJ1EE8E,Northern... .00*
COFFEE, "
Cub*, inf. to fair lb
0
Choice Greta,.. *0 a Ou
Porto Rica,.00 a 00
.7 a 71
COpAbr! Shsathin*,. .*,26 a 00
COTTON, ^
lipl. inf. end ord.....
Mid.
a 8
to mid. fair... .6]
Fair to fully fair....7:
Good aud hot.I
Choice.o _
8. Inland inf. to good 13 o 20
Mid. line and line,...22 * 30
— > Extra tine.40 a oo
CORDAGE, tarred.11 * Hi
Manilla,.0 a 11
DECK, Russia, bolt.16 a 21
American cotton,.13 a 10
FISH, Herrins*, box.76 a 80
Mackerel, No. 1.00 * 00
“ No. 2.00 « 00
No. 3.00 * 00
.00 * 0U
o&VJSVd;.1:{J
pOp^v*‘r-Av-“:*S
RAisSin?»rT^L" H
RAJB1NB, Mala*, bhuthjo * 3
Uilenor to fair, UWlba.00 a 00
Good to prune,.(ju a 0U
Choice. 0 a uu
-,?*0ilt,h>^u*h.. a 81
out*AK, Muscovado, lb 07 a 64
8l Crou....oo * a
PortoR'cu,.. .... . a,
Cod, dry.,
FLOUR,
Bslt. H. 8. Hup.6Ja 6i
Virginia,.UU a J
Alexandria,.U0 a 00
New.York, Canal,.0 a 61
Bellinoute and Eagle,..6* a 6f
New.Orleans..uu a to
GRAIN, Corn, Duah.,.. 43 a 48
Date,...31
N. C. and Vir.00 a Do
glpIS:..
American Window 100ft 6a 61
GUNPOWDER, kag.6 a 6,
HAY, 1
PrimeNorth’n.cwt...66 a 66
IRON, Pig, 100 lb.30 a 00
Hwedss, eeeurted,.41 .41
” ‘ ....61 a l*i
Russian bar,.
:——• Growth..71 • 71
.J • J
lo* * 11
.4 • W
Loai.
Lum.
Crusted,...ill - to
HALT,bl*r*“*i’.-1* *
Liv.riiool ground..1J1 . ij,
-——, cooisa,.. . uu
Turks Island,.20 « 22
.. • *»
SHOT, ail sues,.6 * 00
SUGARS, Spanish,_IQ * 20
American,. . . ’’ii _ s
rALLOW, American...* a 0
TOBACCO,Rcatucky,..44 a 9
M an u lac lured,...8* « 30
Cavendish,.$4 - 30
rEAtt, Bobea,...*.18 * 26
Boucbonf,,........^ ay _ ax
llyaon,. .. ^
Gunjjowdar,.oa a tl
TWINE, beins, lb.2b * 30
Bank Kates for selling Exchangee
Bills on Rn*lnd, no demand.
Bill* on Franc*! 4k,
C'heckw ou rtwef-Yoia, J par cam. premium.
Uo. ou Philadelphia, do.
Do. on Baltimore, par
Do. on Boa ion, do.
Do. on Richmond, do.
Do. on New-Urleana, do.j
Do. on Bavannah, eighl, 1 por uni. ducounO
Do. on Auguaia, eigtn. ) p*r uni. do. '
Do. on Macon and Columbus, nona.
Hauk Shares, Stocks, *c.
Manat.
Original i
Print.
I Lai kuii
Lulled Stales Bank bhares.,...
Bank oi Charleston....do.
.. Do., new issue.do..
Ho uih-Carolina,...do.
State,.........do..
I’uion,.do....,.,
South-Western R. R. Bank,.VS..
Planters’ & Mechanics’.
Commercial, Columbia, do.
Chas. Ins. &. Trust Co.,do..
Kail Road,.do .,76.,
Santee Canal,.do.....,,
Slate 6 percent. Block,..
State 6 per cent. block,
City • per cam. Block,..
City 6 }*er cent. Block,..
Hamburg Bank,..
Camden Bank,..
Bank ol Georgetown,..
...luu..
..100..
...60....
...100.,..
..100....
....26....
s.26..,.
...1U0....
...100....
...100..
...100..
...100..
...100..
....60..
....60....
....25.
..OUOoOUU.
. .OUlkAIO..
. OUutlU...
-OUoUU...
• OUuOU..
...UOQuUO..
...0«.
.OOuOUU..
.UOUoU)..
ODaSSo.'.
..I0u....
.. 107...
.
....00.
3 pr. ct.
•U.
- 61.
.62.60....
..760.....
•a.
■S6.
...•186.
.
•■•ODD....
*1.76...
0< t Cl*. ,.
Beak Notes.
GEORGIA
Augusta, City B’k....l d....
f«vuiiiih1."...“.do....1
"Cen’I. R. R A Br’..l «....•
111.mho- B’k -tale. l.u....'
Auiui , G. R. R. C'.l.d....'
Branch * uguma, ar.<
(Unit ol B un-wick,.. 1.a....'
Agency in Augusta, i ar.
Bruuaw’k, Ea. B'k...U.o..,.'
Rue.’n. a B’g Co. ..l.u...
i)'. Mary’. Bank ol....I
Mi'lodgeeiilc,..*1.l.o,
‘ Centra, ol ..U0.U..UU7..
Macon, Com’l of.l.o....*
Ocinuigeo Rank,.Oa..0.“
O lnmous, Ph«uix,..0.u....“
“ luauianca Bank,.,.0.0....“
Hawkinrule
AS *th»t..
Born h-garolina.
Columbia, Com’rcial i
Bank of..™ (par.
Hambu,* Bank of..... “
Cheraw, M Bank of..«.***
Georgetown Bank.**
Camuen Bank of......... “
oou h-Wa.1 rn Rail ,, ' ’***
Roan Bank, Knox, ( ® oto.. ..
Louie, t in. A Charleo
too R. Road P ecrip
Nonh-I arollna.2**S»Ale..
.a..tj.4»..
.......d*..
Ho id*,.ba ui.
L. Buiww Treasuiy j "*
Nome,.;..
.XAMn'.UfesIr,..