VOL. VIII.—N°. 45.
CHARLESTON, S. C., FRIDA V, APRIL 18, 1845.
WHOLE NUMBER, 409.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY AT THE
OFFICE OF THE S. C. ADVOCATE,
100 Hayne Street, Charleston, S. C.
- -V i B . JENKINS, PRINTER.
TERNS.
Tim SotiTHBRN Christian advocatb Is Issued weekly, it
TWO dollars a ymif, payable in advance ; '1 wo dollars and
fiftt cents, if paid within six months ; or I mrbk Doi.lahs
if not paid until the end of the Huhscription vear.
Hubacrtpiions when paid within one month after receiving the
first number, either to the Publisher* or an authorized Agent, will
he considered in advance. . , , ...
In case of any discontinuance during the year, the subscription
for the year must be paid, and postage of the order to discontinue.
All subscribers will be understood as wishing to continue, unless it
|« expressly stated otherwise.
The Itinerant Ministers and Preachers of the Methodist Epis
copal Church, are, all of them, authorized Agents of the ftouthern
Christian Advocate, to tchom payments may be made.
AV Communications, whether of business or matter for publica
tion, unless remitting money, or subscriptions, to the amount of
ten dollars, must be post paid.
Communications must be addressed to the Rev. W. M. WiOhT
man, Charleston.
Communications Involving facts, or respecting persons, as ac
counts of revivals, of religious meetings, obituary notices, biogra
phies, fcc., must be accompanied with the writer’s name.
H No obituary notice will be inserted unless it be sent within three
months of the death of the person.
SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN ADVOCATE.
From the Christian Advocate & Journal
LETTER FROM REV. W. NAST.
Sluttgardt, Jan., 27, 1845.
, Dear Brother Lyon,—Your kind letter with
brother Lane’s draft on the royal bank came
safe to hand. I would have answered immedi
ately, but thought it better to make my second
visit at Leon berg before l wrote to you. I will
not repeat what 1 had written for the Apologist
and the Western Christian Advocate, and what
1 am just now sending to them. You will read
it there. I know that I owe the editors of the
Christian Advocate & Journal a communication,
but my time has been too much engaged. 1
have been preparing in my mind a long article
on the present aspects of Protestantism in Ger
many, and if time permits,, will imbody the
substance of it in this letter. But first let me
speak of your native place. I hod sent your
sisters, soon alter my first visit, all the articles
which you wrote for the Apologist. They
were reau wun great interest, not oniy uy mem,
but by many of your schoolmates, of whom some
have become piousand goto thc“ Gemeinschaft.”
The Pietists invited me several times to hold a
meeting with them, which 1 accordingly did in
old Mr. Josenhans’ .house. The three large
rooms which nre adjoiiftig to each other were
crowded hill. I had, besides this,a meeting with
all your relations, in the house of your afflicted
sister Rosine. It was a most affecting hour.
0 that you could once more visit your native
place! L had even a hope to preach in the
church the following Sunday. It was the wish
01 the Rev. Mr. Hang, the special of the town, a
former classmate of mine, to invite me to preach,
but his colleague, the deacon, protested against it.
As the letter of the law forbids all those who
have not been ordained by the national Church
to preach in the pulpits, I cannot think hard of
being denied to do so in towns and cities, and I
am thankful and satisfied that the privilege, is
granted to me in the parish churches. After I
returned to Stultgariit, 1 thought—and the
thought was not accidental but providential—of
paying my respects to the chaplain of the king,
with the intention of asking him, whether it
would please his majesty to give me an audi
ence. After 1 had introduced myself, the chap
lain seemed embarrassed, but said, after a pause,
“ It is the more interesting to me, to get acquaint
ed with you, as your name was mentioned yes
terday in the session of the consistory, in con
nection with a petition which the Rev. Mr. Slohl
nmn, a Lutheran minister of New York, sent to
the king in the name of several Lutheran con
gregations, praying that a collection might be
taken up in all our churches for the establish
ment of a Lutheran theological seminaty at Co
lumbus, Ohio. With surprise and a smile, 1
asked if the Rev. Mr. Stohlman had done me
the honor to refer to me as one that would re
commend this enterprise. “ By no means,” was
the reply, “ there is a bitter complaint against the
hostile attacks of Methodists upon the Lutheran
Church and doctrine, and especially against
you.” He brought, then, a great baggage, con
sisting of sundry communications, accompanying
pamphlets, and a long petition upon this subject,
out of which he read to mu a lew sentences, in
which Mr. Stohlman writes, “ While we are
writing this, Mr. Nast,the editor of the Christian
Apologist, is here in the city, preaching againt
the Lutherans, and denouncing the Augsburg
Confession in a public lecture, &.c. And we
have to add to your warning that he is on the
point of departing for the South of Germany, in
order to disturb your national Church,” &c.
The woful description which Mr.' Stohlman
made of the fanatical American sects, and the
danger in which the Lutherans were to aposta
tize from the Christian faith, you can imagine.
But in this instance it will do no harm to the
good cause; nay, the Lord will .bring signal
good out of the evil which our enemies intended.
I had already gained the confidence of the most
distinguished evangelical clergymen, and of
some of the prelates ; our Discipline, Hymn
Book, Apologist, and other publications have i
freely circulated here; intelligent and good men !
had full opportunity to examine Methodism in
all its features. I did not conceal those which
are most objectionable to European Lutherans—
our mourner’s bench and camp-meetings, &c. 1
will not repeat what I have written on this sub
ject before. Nevertheless l have to thank Mr.
Stohlman lor the opportunity which he has affor
ded me of laying an official vindication of Metho
dism before the highest ecclesiastical tribunal of
the country, and thereby exerting a favorable in
fluence for the Wesleyan societies in this king
dom. To be suy, the intention and expectation
of the Lutheran petitioners was an entirely dif
ferent one. Tlad I not been favored with con
nections and with opportunities to explain our
doctrines and the object of our German missions,
the denunciation which Mr. Stohlman & Co.
made against their countryman, an American
citizen, to this government, might have brought
me into a very disagreeable situation ; I might
have received an order to leave the country ; at
least l would have been forbidden to hold any
meetings. I must now tell you what reply 1
made to the chaplain after communicating to ine
the above extract from Mr. Stohlman’s petitions
The blame of holding a lecture on the Augs
burg Confession 1 laid, of course, entirely on you,
ns you know that I was not concerned in it; but
\ said, that 1 heard your lecture with my own
ears, and instead of denouncing the Augsburg
Confession, your only object was to refute for
mer misrepresentations and calumnies of Mr.
Stohlman againsttheMethodists,and to prove,that
the Methodists, hold all the essential points of the
‘Augsburg Confession, and have more of its spir
it than many Lutheran congregations in Ameri
ca. As we were interrupted by n call, I could
only give him a few outlines of the differences
between the self-constituted Protestant congrega
tions of German Europeans and the evangelical
American Churches, which nre based upon a
wholesome discipline, and blessed with succes
sive outpourings of the Holy Spirit. He invited
me to see him and some other members of the
consistory some evening at his house. The next
day I sent him our Discipline and Hymn-Book,
and Dr. Baird’s “Religion in America,!’ which
has just now appeared in a German translation.
So 1 hope all will work together for good.
I will now add some general reflections on
the present ecclesiastical aspects of Germany,
presupposing that you have read what I wrote
for the Western Christian Advocate, and of
which I wish not to repeat any thing, except the
general idea, that the time of religious indiffer
ence in Germany is at a close. The Chuch
will no more represent and cherish the most
contradictory opinions and principles. The mo
dern Hegelian philosopher on the one side, and
the political manoeuvres of Popery and Jesuitism
on the other side, have attacked the Church in
stitutions with fierceness', and threaten their des
truction. Besides, in the bosom of the Piotest
ant Church arose, with the revival of the ortho
dox theology, a desire to return to the first letter
of the symbolical books of the Lutheran Church.
But the late king of Prussia attempted, as is well
known, the Union of the Lutheran with the Ger
man Reformed in one national Church. This
gave rise to the formation of an exclusive Luthe
ran party in Prussia, which is ardently support
?d by the Lutherans in the Roman Catholic
Bavaria, wholhi.ik they can oppose Popery best
by assuming that the Lutheran Church i’s the
only true Church of Christ! In consequence
of all this, the definition of “the Church.” and its
relation to the civil government, became the
principal question among the theologians. This
corresponds with the practical character of the
ige, which is evidently stamped even upon spec
ulative Germany. The Lutherans were un
doubtedly right in opposing the arbitrary union
between two confessions, which was attempted
by the king; but the party which arose in con
sequence of this has become sectarian of the deep
est dye, and bears a strong analogy to the Pu- ]
seyites of England. They place salvation in
he sacraments and in the letter, and want to i
bring us back to the dead orthodoxy ol the Crew),
which caused the Lutheran Church to make
shipwreck ol the life and power of religion soon
liter the Reformation. It is unaccountable that"
be learned and partly pious men, who are the ,
leaders of this school, should fall into such a pal-I
pable error, in spite of a long and melancholy j
experience, that the life of the Church cannot be j
expected from such a course. To give you a !
specimen of their exclusive character, 1 will I
piote a passage from one of their champions : i
;‘We cannot call the Reformed the Church, nr j
even a part of the Church of Christ, for they
lack the notes of the Christian Church, the purity :
nf the sacraments, and unity in doctrine ; neither ;
can we call them a sister Church, for the Church
of Christ cannot have sisters. The Lutheran
Church is the only true Church in our times, |
she alone has the pure sacraments, and unity of,
doctrine.” These ultra Lutherans have broken
up all connection with the missionary institutions
of Germany, because these send their missiona
ries out with the broad commission to preach
the fundamental doctrines of the Gospel, without
insisting upon the differences between the Luthe
ran and Reformed confession of faith. They
have formed their own Church mission institute,
and for their principal mission field they have
chosen ihe emigrant Germans in the IJnited
States. Mr. Wyncckcn represented the danger
in which me L.uinerans in America wore placed,
both by the Methodists and by the Gettysburg
Lutherans, in such glowing colors that they
have concentrated all their exertions to send
strictly Lutheran preachers to this lai^ of sects
and sectarians! By these missionaries the Ger
man Methodists will be as fiercely attacked as by
the Romish priests. I thank God that I was
permitted by his kind providence to visit Germa
ny, and fetch sundry weapons and nmunilions
against them. They are, however, in Germa
ny, as yet, the minority of the orthodox Protest
ant clergy, and it is to be hoped that they will de
crease instead of increase, especially in the king
dom of Wirteinbcrg, where the evangelical min
isters seek more the power and life of religion,
and are republishing the works of Spener,Franke,
Ross, Reiger, men who had the spirit of the Wes
leys.
In Prussia the great majority of the clergy is !
in favor of a national Church, consisting of'
Lutherans and Reformed, but in a different sense, j
1'he one part is for an outward, political union,
because they have the spirit of rationalistic in
differenlism ; the other wishes to bring about a
union on truly evangelical principles, and disap- j
proves of the direct interference from the gov
ernment. This latter view is defended by Dr.
Ilengstenberg, the editor of the Evangelical
Church Journal.
After having mentioned the different panic? in
the theological.Protestant world of Germany, it
remains to say a few things respecting the posi
tion of German Protestantism in general toward
Popery and Infidelity. Upon this l can give
you nothing better than some, extracts from the
New Year’s Reflections of 'Dr. Wolfgang Ment
zel, the celebrated author of the History of Ger
man, Literature. The doctor shows, first, how it
was the Protestant press, a late fruit of the Ref
ormation, which emancipated Germany in the
middle of the last century, the time of her deep
est degradation, from the corrupting influence of
French atheism and obscenity, as well as from
the immoral and spiritless education of the Jesu
its. Most of the German classical writers, who
began to arise from the middle to the end of the
century, breathed a spirit of deep morality, and
exerted a great and salutary influence upon the
Roman Catholic population. The protestants
and Catholics of Germany were brought still
nearer to eacli other by breaking with their
united strength the political yoke of Napoleon.
The highest hopes of a great moral union were
entertained, but how much have we been disap
pointed 1 “ In opposition to the Protestant press
of Germany has arisen with deadly hatred the
| new press of the Jesuits, and the German nation
is now divided into two hostile camps. All the
claims which Bellarmine ond Canizios once
made, are revived. The Jesuitism, which wns
considered buried in 1773, hns not only been
formally restored since 1814, but has made du
ring the last decennium immense conquests on
German ground. They have founded a press,
whose works hold nlrendy numerically the bal
ance to the older Protestant press. They htive
the advantage of taking the offensive, and the
charm of novelty and surprise^ Their most
influential and" talented organs d*lare solemnly
the bitterest hatred to all that belongs to Protest
antism. Nothing good is acknowledged. His
tory is most, diabolically falsified,” &c.
However, the confident opinion is expressed,
that it will be impossible for a Jesuitical press
ever to obtain a German character, a national
taste. Dr, Mcntzel considers justly, as fur more
dangerous, the horrible npostnsy of the modern
German Protestant philosophy to Atheism and
boundless immorality. “ Voltaire, who one
hundred yeaTS ago could carry on his diabolical
work only by means of a Roman Catholic liter
ature, has now risen to life in the Protestant
literature, and reigns mightier than ever among
us, through the numberless n6w apostles of the
so called emancipated spirit and lewdness. Vol
taire’s ‘ corascz Cinfame,’ has become the watch
word of a great and widespread party among the
Protestants. The Atheism, whieh in the last
century could find favor only with the corrupted
nobility and the Jacobins in Catholic France, or
the Illuminati in Catholic Bavaria, has now
taken root in the heart of Protestantism. For
nearly thirty years Atheism, by the name of the
Hegelian philosophy, has strowed out into many
thousand spirits the seed of deepest hatred against
Christianity, against all that has been called reli
gion in any sense; it has infected systematically
a very great part of the civil officers and mag
istrates, and obtained through the press an incal
culable influence upon public opinion. To those
who rose against this new philosophy with in
dignation, they reply, that the principle of Prot
estantism is unlimited liberty and progress.
Every claim of a positive ground of faith and of
a moral law is denied. Unlimited liberty may
deny everything, and continual progress is to
them nothing else than to believe less and less.
While the censorship suppressed every censure
of the temporal government, it suffered a bound
less "reproach of the eternal administration, a
mockery of all that is sacred, open blasphemy;
sometimes it seemed even as if the transfer ofccn
sure from the earthly state upon the kingdom of
God was welcome. When the late controver
sies arose on account of the papal assumptions,
the opinion was prevailing, that the Protestants
need to use no other weapon against the Roman
Catholics than absolute infidelity ; not one
Church should be defended against the other, but
every Church should be represented as a ridicu
luus barbarism. This system of metaphysical
infidelity, which prevails in the higher classes, is
made popular by a press devoted to lewdness.
Atheism has always been, and must be, joined
with immorality. The philosophers, who deny
the Deity, have, as fellows, poets who make a
mock of good morals. In the last century there
was so much moral spirit in the Protestant liter
ature that it repulsed the French lewdness. But
this spirit has disappeared. Many hundred pres
ses, in all tl^ larger cities of Germany, are daily
employed to spread the literary poison, which
the Parisians concoct."
As a specimen of the frivolity and blasphemy
with which some of the Hegelians treat Christi
anity, I will give you a passage from the wri
tings of Professor Vischer, in Tubingen :—
“The ancient Greek showed in his festivals the
beauty strength, and skill of his artizans and
poets to his gods, that they might rejoice over
men, seeing they bring honor to their gods. So
should we also make it manifest, that we have
no poor, but a joyful existence; we should, show
our God, that we know how good his worksnre,
nnd that he has not made bungling work with us.
The parsons, who condemn the Sunday pleasures
ol the people, may worship their Juggernaut, and
be crushed under the wheels* of the wrathful
monster which they adore.”
Ur. JVlentzel proceeds: “ The former Protestant
press, which reigned without a rival, and ex
pected to enjoy her moral and national triumph
in future, is now on the one side placed into the
defensive against the'Roman Catholic aggres
sions from without; on the other it has a traitor
in its own bosom the destructive philosophical
party, which strengthens involuntarily the ene
my from without. Add to this, that the better
part of the Protestant theology is too learned and
unpopular. The language of the philosophical
schools is not the language of the people, which
now needs to be heard.
“A great portion of the orthodox theology is
still under the control of metaphysics, as if
suffering of dropsy. The Protestant theology
has besides run through the whole scale of all
possible degrees of orthodoxy and heterodoxy, so
that the differences among the orthodox are even
greater than among the skeptics and infidels. If
then the theology of the Protestants is split into
so many parts, and opposed on the one side by
the Roman Catholic faith, on the other by infi
delity incompact masses; if besides, the great
minority of orthodox Protestants. is taken into
consideration, it must excite great apprehen
sions.”
Dr. Mentzel describes then the principal popu
lar champions of Protestanism in this contest,
and shows that they do more hurt than good to
the evangelical religion, inasmuch as they are
fu II of rationalistic leaven, and as much intent up
on preventing the regeneration of the Evangeli
cal Church as upon attacking the superstition of
Popery. “Every adherence to a confession of
faith is too strict for them, every liturgy too much
Catholic, every ecclesiastical constitution too
hierarchical.” There is no doubt here a refer
ence to the so called “Gustav Adolph’s-verein”_
a Protestant association, which originated from
the old school of the German rationalists.
Dr. Mentzel casts then a glancn at the rest of
Europe, and proceeds : “In France either the
destructive element of infidelity will be overcome
by the Popish, or the latter by the former. Ger
many will suffer in the one case from the atheis
tical and communistical influence, in the other
from the Popish. And even if both principles
keep each other in balance, as hitherto, the
French politicians will aid the progress of Jesui
tism in Germany. As well as Cardinal Riche
lieu once persecuted the Huguenots in France, I
and aided the Protestants in Germany nt the same!
time, so Theirs can oppose the Jesuits in France,
and at the same time promote the Papal opposi
tion in the Protestant states of Germany. If
the Catholics make common cause, France will
be at their head ; and the Cntholics in France,
Italy, and Germany together, mnke a large ma
jority against the Protestants. On the opposite
side, in the tiir north-east of Europe, we see
another fearful majority press upon the small
Protestant minority, the Greek Church of Rus
sia. Look only at the map of Europe, and you
will see within how small limits Prot slant Ger
many lies. Sweden and Norway will he sub
ject to Russian power, and England has to take
care of herself. Is then Protestant Germany so
mighty that she can think hersell safe? Is it
forgotten that she was twice nigh her dissolution?
Once toward the end of the sixteenth, and in the
beginning of the seventeenth century. Howl
much territory did Protestantism lose nt that
time? Bohemia, nearly the whole of Austria,
the upper Palatinate, Belgium, many episcopal
districts, and free imperial cities, which were al
ready Protestants, were reconquered by the Je
suits. And how was it with the Protestant cause
in the year lG29,even in Berlin and Hamburg?
The Protestant North of Germany camo the se
cond time in extreme danger through Napoleon.
He spared, indeed, the confessions; but would he
have continued to do it if be had reigned longer ?
No doubt he and his successors would have re
conciled themselves with the Pope, and made
Roman Catholicism the basis of their dynasty, |
like Charles the Great and his successors. What
would then have been done with the Protestants?
Is it forgotten how Napoleon treated the press of
Northern Germany ? That he permitted on the
right bank of the Elbe no newspaper, except un
der the censorship of French police, and with
half French text ? How soon would the French
language have prevailed with the French domin
ion ! Is it forgotten how Napoleon made an al
liance with Russia in the year 1809 ; how both
wanted to take their share of Germany ; how the
diplotnatical negotiations had almost completed
the giving up of East Prussia to Russia ? But
what would have become under these circum
stances of Protestanism, and the Protestant press,
we can learn from the Russian German provin
ces in the Baltic. If the Protestant North of
Germany has happily escaped twice such threa
li ning danger irom Copcry, it follows not that it
may not again fall into the same danger. A
total defeat and political subjugation of the'Ger
man Protestants, and tjieir press, by the powers
which are hostile to evangelical religion, is cer
tainly no impossibility."
“How unconscious the Protestant press is of
the signs of the times, we can see from the man
ner in which she regarded and treated the im
mense pilgrimage of the Roman Catholics to the
holy gown at Trier. She only wondered at the
old superstition, and thought such folly would
soon be forgotten, liken book. She does not
comprehend that it was a commotion in the great
mass of the nation. Even the politicians were
so infatuated that they could not comprehend the
meaning of this event. About two millions of
people assemble on the borders of France and
Germany ; more than a thousand French priests
fraternize with German priests, and the press has
only to laugh at the nonsense of doing homage
loan old piece of cloth. A power develops it
self, like a giant double eagle, lifting his broad
wings over Europe, with the one head turned to
Paris, with the other to Berlin, but with the one
heart to Rome, and the press understands it not;
the noise of her gooscquills makes the noise of
those eagle-wings upward."
Another charge which Dr. Mentzi I makes
against the popular press is this, that she will
not permit the Protestant Church to assert her
principles, and her independent institutions. la
this hostile attitude to the Protestant clergy the
socalled liberal party is agreed with the aristo
cratical or ministerial. The Protestant civil
governments watch everywhere every movement
of the Protestant clergy with the greatest suspi
cion, and will not suffer the Church to develop
her powers for the public good.
They do not understand the character of the
times ; they do not consider that the Roman Cn
tnnnc onurcn is reassuming her ionner claims,
and that spirit can only be met by spirit, one
Church be overcome only by another. If the
Protestant princes in the time of the Reformation
would only have had the advice of lawyers and
statesmen, if they had not had a Luther, a Me
lancthon in their Church councils, they would
have been defeated by the Pope. How strange
is then the infatuation of Protestent princes, if
they do not suffer their own Churchmen to speak
out, and assert their interests in a period when
the Roman Catholic Church has revived with
twofold strength, and produces daily powerful
bishops? Equally blind in this respect is the
liberal party—they do not understand the impor
tance of the Church in our day ; they do not
consider that they cannot do away the Church.
If they are not pleased with the Protestant
Church, they must be pleased with the Romish.
Is then no spark of political wisdom left in these
liberal heads, that they will not use the Protest
ant Church as a means, if she does not suit them
os an end ?
Who desires a popular representation can de
ny the value of an ecclesiastical one? How un
just are these liberals against the Protestant’cler
gy. They are tamely subject to the civil con
trol, they make them suspected of beingtools.of
tyranny ; if they, on the other hand, seek greater
independence from the state, they are reproached
with a desire of making a Protestant inquisition.
Whether they move or are quiet, they are expo
sed to their scorn—except they should solemnly
renounce the Christian faith, like some Prussian
pastors did lately at the famous convention nt1
Ko’then,or as Magdeburg, where the principle
was asserted that every congregation should be
at liberty to change every day her articles of reli
gion and liberty. After comparing the press of
the day with the corrupting influence of the para
sites, sophists, rhetoricians, gladiators, and cour
tezans of old Rome, Dr. Mentzel asserts, that all
the ties of religion and morals would be dissolv
ed, and the nation be inevitably ruined, if there
was not a redeeming principle in the uncorrupt
ed character of the common people of Germany.
They, and they alone, have the power of regen
erating the nation, and preserving the evangeli
cal religion. They have still the power of faith,
and will do wonders by it. Only the press, the'
learned, and the higher classes are corrupted.
The people will demand before long a general
Church council, in which the word of God must
be the arbiter. “That which the press, with her
thousand tongues and earless head, can never ac
complish, an agreement in the essential doctrines,
can only be accomplished by a council where
the speakers will be responsible to the people,
who have an interest to near what is spoken in
public, but not to rend learned treatises. The
fbolisli notions and abstractions, which a theolo
gian prepares in his study-room for the press, he
will take care to pronounce openly before a coun
cil ; for-he knows that a public judgment awaits
him, and that the whole.people is thejury. The
conviction will then prevail that Protestantism is
not lo be defended by means of metaphysics and
skepticism, but by tne Bible, and a living faith ;
that infidelity is the chain which is being forged
by the German Protestants, and that faith in the
pure word of God is the only weapon by which
they can preserve their liberty.”
May a glorious day soon break upon Germa
ny; may a gracious Providence overrule the
evil for good, and make infidel philosophers the
instruments of waking up the Protestant Church.
May the .Lord soon raise up mighty men in
Church and state, who will lead the people, like
Moses and Aaron ; and may the estimable litera
ture of Germany be purged and sanctified, and
may all the nations of the earth learn wisdom
from theexperiment which Germans have made I
Affectionately yours, W. Nast.
From the Episcopal Protestant.
THE LATE SYDNEY SMITH.
The death of this gifted, but worldly clergy*
man, is announced in the late English papers.—
Asa man of talents he. ranked high, and as a
writer of terse, strong, good English, he was
surpassed by few of his age ; as a satirist, we
question whether he has left behind him a supe
rior either in the brightness of his wit, or the
keenness of his expression. His pungency a
like with the pen and tongue, made him the ter
ror of his opponents. But what, it may yet be
asked, is all this to the high and holy calling of
a minister of the Lord Jesus Christ? How oft
en indeed were his very powers of sarcasm di
rected against those who, in plain simplicity, and
godly earnestness, were engaged in proclaiming
and practising those very truths, which this
highly cultivated genius, was bound to believe
and obey, but yet slighted and ridiculed I How
mucn more to be aspired alter in the Eternal
World, will be the reputation of the humblest
preacher of the ^lospel, than that of this highest
of wits, and finest of writers ! What might not
his powers have accomplished, had they been en
tirely consecrated to the service of Christ!
The Record thus notices his decease.
The death of Sydney Smith! Who does
not feel that the title of Reverend is but sadly
abused, even while courtesy appends it to his
laughter-loving name? Who does not hear
with something like melancholy mirth, that al
though little qualified by nature or by grace for
any spiritual office in the Church, there was a
period when a mitre seemed almost within the
grasp of that man “of infinite jest and excellent
fancy ?” Who can but smile when he remem
bers thnt the denial of this object of ambition,
served to barb those shafts with which it was
impossible to be angry, although they sorely
pierced Lord John Russell and his other Whig
allies during the last years of their office.
Sydney Smith scarcely professed to Ire a theo
logian; he was, in facta politician, and a most
valuable partisan of the Whig party. He serv
ed them long, he served them well and faithfully;
he was conscious of his services, and he never
scrupled to conceal his own claims or expecta
tions Early in life he attached himself to
their cause, when their fortunes were at the low
est ebb; when the French Revolution had
branded the very name of liberal opinions with
the stigma of Jacobinism and democracy; and
when it was hardly possible to find a clergyman
prominent in the ranks of Opposition, who was
not justly tainted with the suspicion of being
disaffected to the truths of the Bible and the
doctrines of his Church.
Sydney Smith’s association with the Edin
Irurgh Review was not peculiarly calculated to
clear his reputation from such suspicions. Of
that celebrated Journal he himself has told the
public, thnt he was the first editor. His associ
ates, Lords Brougham, Jeffrey, and Murray,
still survive, while Horner, Playfair, Leslie, and
others have long since passed off the stage and
gone 10 give in uieir account. He also inform
ed us that when choosing a motto for their jour
nal, his very playful humour, mocking the hum
ble circumstances of himself and more youthful
co-adjutors, suggested a line from one of the
Latin poets, which intimated, by a pun on the
words “tenui avena,” that the young reviewers
were sustained at Edinburgh in their work “on
; a little oatmeal.” The laughing editor did not,
however, long continue to guide the helm of the
Edinburgh Review, but it is painful to think that
the most virulent attacks on “Missionary aud
Methodism,” on Calvinists and Evangelicals,
! came from the pen of the future Prebendary and
Canon of St. Paul’s. His quick perception of
the ludicrous; his power of contrasting strange
opposites; his reckless disregard of all that was
most serious and most solemn, except so far as
it supplied topics of startling contrast, enabled
him to find ample scope for his pungent wit
amidst the diaries of simple missionaries, the
advertisements of the Evangelical Magazine,
or the peculiarities of “the Clapham sect.” It
is salisfactqry to know that his effusions were
too strong even for the readers of his own jour
nal, and that Mr. Jeffrey himself was compelled,
! by a regard to the interests of his journal, to bow
! to public feeling, and to curb the misplaced and
reckless merriment of his irreverend ally. It is
lamentable to think that the aspirant to a mitre
»should within the last few years have chosen to
collect and republish many, if not all, of these
offensive articles, as well as the letters of “ Peter
Plymley,” in which, with a talent, matchless of
its kind, he advocated Roman Catholic emanci
pation. The notoriety he thus acquired was,
nearly forty years ago, a passport to Holland
House; and from that period till the death of
its distinguished owner, he was the charm of
that brilliant circle which assembled in that
celebrated mansion, whose turrets and gardens
and festive halls are associated, as Macaulay has
said, “ with so much that is interesting and no
ble,—with the coujoly magnificence of Rich,
with the loves of Ormond, with the counsels of
Cromwell, with the death of Addison." * *
In contemplating the close of his career, it is
well to remember how in this world all earthly
things come to an end, and never does wit or the
[ power of creating laughter appear so insignifi
cant as when touched by the cold hand of death.
Death, it has been quaintly said will make nny
man respectable. It will, at all events, compel
us in some degree to estimate the value of an
immortal soul. “Where," said Hamlet, “be
your gibes now, your gambols, your songs, your
flashes of merriment, that were wont to set th#
table in a roar?” Ail these vanities are gone,
and they are now seen to be less than nothing
and vanity. Of Sydney Smith we may think
with sorrowful regret, while we remember'(fiat ~
his singular gifts were peculiarly calculated to
ensnare and mislead. It is not of him or of his
errors and failings that we speak; our business
is^w'ith ourselves, and to remember that “God is
not mocked, for whatsoever a man soweth, that
shall he also reap.” _ -,
A HINT TO MINISTERS.
There was a husbandman that always sowed
good seed, but never had good corn. At last a
neighbor came to him, and said, “ I will tell you
what probably may be the cause of it. It may
be,” said lie, “ you do not steep your seed?’’
“ No, truly,” replied the other, “nor did I ever
hear that seed must be steeped.” " Yes, surely,”
said his neighbor, “and I will tell yott how. it
must be steeped in prayer'' When the party
heard this, he thanked him for his counsel, re
formed his fault, and had as good corn as other
persons.
May this little anecdote afford a useful hint to
those whose office it is to sow the good seed of
the divine word ? Too frequently it is found that
but very little good fruit is produced within the
limits of their exertions. What can be the
cause? Alas! the seed which they sow although
of the best quality, even of heavenly origin,is'
not steeped in prayer. To the want ot scrupu
lously attending to this practice, may be traced
the barrenness of our favored land. Let then
the spiritual husbandman in future be more dili
gent in his attention to that important duty, and'
then may he hope to see the vineyard committed
to his care, abounding in all the fruits of right
eo u sness.—FI meets Husband ry.
For the Southern Christian Advocate. . 9 J
MEETING IN-LAWRHNCEVILLE GA.
At a meeting of the'members of the Lawrence
ville Methodist Episcopal Church Ga. Confer
ence held on the 30th day of March 1845, Jesse
Murphy was chosen chairman and Richard D.1
Winn was chosen to act as secretary, the follow
ing preamble and resolutions were allmoust
unanimously adopted.
Since it appears to this body, that some of the
conferences of the Methodist E. C. in the sooth1
west have extended an invitation to the societies
within their respective boundaries, to assemble in
their primary capacities, and express their views
with regard tothe necessity of dividing the shove
named Church in the United States. ; ,k ,
And that the Georgia Conference; without
regard to the feeling has not condesended to in
vite the societies under its particular Jurisdiction,
to paiticipate in the disposition of this question of
such paramount importance—the division of the
church.
Believing ns we do, with our illustrious foun- *
der John Wesley “That to separate ourselves
from a body of living Christians, with whom we
were before united is a grevious breach of the
law of love that it is the nature of love, to unite
us together, and the greater the love the stricter
the union that it is only when our love grows
coldthnlwc can think of separation from our
Brethren—the pretences for separation may be
innumerable but want oflove is always the real
cause." These being the facts we deem it pur
privilege, as well as our bounden duty, to adopt
and publish the following resolutions.
1st. That all ecclesiastical power is inherent
in the individual members of the Methodist E, C.
and of right ought to be exercised by them in
sittlmg all questions that may infringeupon their
membership, ... u- , .
2nd. That we view' with astonishment and
concern the declaration of Dr. Capers and oth
ers, that important alterations will be made by the
Louisville Convention, in the disciplin of our
church, without ever consulting those,for whoese
benefit they are to'be made,
3rd. 1 hat tvo highly disapprove of the recent
ly established action of the General Conference,
in employing stenographic to report its speeches,
in as much as, many of the members of that body
at its last sessions manifested a great deal of
irr itability with their Brethren, which should
have died upon their lip, and have been forgot
ton as a dream instead of being published to a
scorffiing world to feed its skepticism and Infi
delity.
4th. Resolved that we approve in the main and
hereby in part adopt the resolutions passed
by the 4th street charge Methodist episcopal
Church st. Louis Missouri on the 25lh Decem
ber to writ. . ,. ,.n.
1st. Resolved that as members of one ecclesi
astical family, reposing peacefully and securely
with the extended, all powerful and benign em
brace of the constitution of our glorious confeder
acy geographical distinctions, and sectional pri
judices, have no existance among us,
2nd. That a division of our church is uncaled
for by any circumstances that have yet comp to
our knowledge,
3rd. That the peace harmony and union'of
the Methodist E. C. are strong guarantees of tbe
perpetuation of the union of these states—the pre ■
cepls ofour holy religion venuration for our civil
institutions both appeal to every religous, patrio
tic bosom not to devide our church, x-uv
4tli. That in the.spirit of compromise we pro
pose to refer this vexed slave question to exclusive
supervision of the slave holding conferences,Sub
ject to the laws of their respective states, and that
no Bishop shall be elected hereafter who is a
slaveholder or abolitionist.
5th. That in case an amicable adjustment of
the differences now existing in our church can
not be concluded in said convention, then we re
commend we implore said convention not to de
vide said church but refer the subject for set
tlement to the next General Conference,
(6th omitted) ...i/ftoq
7th. That if said convention shall conclude on
division we shall ever regard it as the act ,the
ministry and not of the membership which we
will not feel bound to submit to,
8th. That we Tccognize no right of the Gen
eral Conference, to sanction even preliminary
steps to a division ot the church much less do we
conceide to any body of ministers the power to
set off this or any other charge from the Metho
dist E. C. into a separate and distinct ecclesiasti
cal government, be it north or south and thatif