' - ■“ ‘1 „ 1' *
MISSIONARY.
■ 'Sfef '&?•> ' *
,:s*
^ -• ' A ■' -
JS&' For U<» Boultrem CluiftUn Advocate. “ , „ <‘
VMl(3810NARY t>iisAPPOINTED: BUT \
■ , ApREEABLY. . - ' ~
•end aitiXpiifr Sir,—Jnirt suffer me, if you
j,.,__ throngfi^tbe columns of the. Advocate, to
say to my brethreh in tfie ministry who may some
timesfeel uneasy ill tho prospect of being sent to a
mission to the blacks, and also to their friends who
occasionallytstact.objections to . this peculiar field
of' ministerial hmbur, that when our Acellent and
beloved Bishop read put my name for »- Mission
at our Iasi Conference, I Was struck with dismay at
the announcement. However,! kept my thoughts
within my own bosom; and for my own encourage*
ment, when my friends expressed their fears and
anxieties in my behalf, I talked as favourably of my
appointment as possible, determined to make ,tb°
very best of what I was tempted to consider * Very
bad business. My Methodistic faith wa* P0* 1° a
severe trial; and I really thought that if the fixing
of the appointments had been left*® ™V * 0011 “
have done better than the Bishop for one time at
least. My health having been much impaired from
frequent and protracted attacks of that doleful dis
ease, chiU and fever. I bad concluded that any thing
short of an up-country circuit, which had been my
lot for two years previously, would be probable
death. When it appeared that I had to goto amis*
sion in the swamps, visions of alligators, mosqui*
toes, fogs, malaria, norria water, auu a
other things of the kind, swarmed before my mind.
The very name of my mission seemed to reek with
rice-land fevers; and to be but the synonyme of a
grave-yard. JTo tell you the truth, sir, I expected
to have been dead long before this time. But I
'thought, if I had to fall in the * forlorn hope,’ there
must be no ‘backing out’ from duty. It was the
path of my duty according to the constituted order
«T the church. So, of course, life or death, I came
to my work. And what then 1 Will you believe
it, to my utter astonishment and the entire satis
faction of my anxious friends, the wretched chills
and fevers which, in an up-country circuit, fastened
like a vampire upon my debilitated system, and
which stuck to me, shaking and burning me every
third night upon the road from my home to my mis
sion, contihued about one week after my arrival in
the swamps, which was about the first of March;
and then fairly struck their flag. My health has been
improving rapidly since that time, and is now much
letter than for four years past f I weigh 'perhaps,
Iten pounds more now than I ever did; for which I
feel most truly grateful to God, who has been so
/much better to me than my unbelieving fears.} And
' can I do other than trust him for time to come, and
spend my health and strength in his service. From
experience, sir, I am convinced that I know not
what is best for myself. So that, hereafter, by
grace, I mean to hold by that glorious assurance,
that all things work together for good to them that
love Ood. I have staid all the time within four
miles of the heart of my mission, and expect to con
tinue here the rest of the year, if the Lord will.—
With occasional exceptions, I remain on the plan
tations where I have to fight the mosquitoes, and
hear the swell of many a frog-chorus : but I stand
my ground and battle my way through, with a good
courage. Suffer me to say in conclusion, that I
came on this work with much trembling; but
when I commence to repeat some of our good old
fashioned Methodist hymns, and the sable sons and
daughters of Africa, begin to chant the praises of
God with their melodious voices, all keeping time
by a seesaw of the head, and a pat with the foot; and
a spark of hallowed fire kindles in my heart, I then
feel as independent as a king: the joy of the Lord
is my strength; and I gladly lay myself out to spend
» and be spent in bringing home to God these outcast
wanderers for whom Christ has died. Some Sab
baths, I believe that I could preach five times, in
L stead of three. I am glad that I am a missionary.^
Glory to God and the Lamb.
“ Happy if with my latest breath,
I may but gasp his name;—
Preach Him to all, and cry in death,
Behold, behold the Lamb.”
August 7,1843. A Missionary.
From the Charleston Mercury.
THE RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION OF
. SLAVES—BISHOP BERKELEY.
*fAbout the year 1728 the truly excellent and great
Bishop Berkeley conceived the design of establish
ing on the Islands of Bermuda, then generally cal
led the Summer Islands, a college for the education
of Missionaries to convert the savages of America.
The scheme met with so much favour from the dis
. tinguished men of the times, that it was at length
taken up in parliament, and the King was petitioned
to make a grant of £20,000 to carry it into effect,
which he readily promised to do, through Walpole
the then Minister. Bishop Berkeley accordingly
sailed for this country, and took up his residence at
Newport in Rhode Island, where he spent several
years, wating for the fulfilment of the royal promise.
But with Walpole, to promise and to do, especially
in the matter of giving away money, were not ex
actly the same things, and when, after interminable
delays, the Bishop inquired of him through a friend,
whether he intended really to let him have the
£20,000 or not, Sir Robert made the very honest
and obliging reply; “ If you put this question to me,
as a Minister, I must and can assure you, that the
money shall most undoubtedly be paid as soon as suits
with public convenience, but if you ask me as a friend,
whether Dean Berkeley should continue in Amer.
t-v
ica, expecting the payment ot jt>^u,UUU, X advise him,
by all means, to return home to Europe and to give
up his present expectations.” The Bishop was too
wise a man- not to take such a hint, and the object
of seven years anxious toil was sacrificed to the
faithlessness of one narrow-minded great man. So
ended the .first scheme ever put on foot to evan
gelize AmraRa.
^But we have given this short history specially to
i Introduce the fact, that it was a part of the plan of
.Bishop Berkeley to provide for the spiritual instruc
tion of the slaves of this country, as well as the con
version of the savages to Christianity; which we
think a circumstance so honorable to his sagacity
and philanthrophy, that it ought to be kept in the
minds of posterity, Speaking, in his “ Proposal,” of
' the mean qualifications, both as to learning and
morals, of the Clergymen they had been in the habit
of sendingout from England to America, he remarks,
“ To this may be imputed the small care that hatli
been taken to correct the negroes of our plantations,
who, to the infamy of England, and scandal of the
world, continue heathens under Christian masters,
and in Christian countries. Which would never
be if our Planters were rightly instructed and made
sensible, that they disappointed their own baptism
by denying it to those who belonged ?o them:_that
it would be of advantage to their affairs, to have
slaves who should “obey in all things their master
according to the flesh, not with eye service as men
pleasers, but in singleness of heart, as fearing God:”
—that Gospel liberty consists with temporal seryi*
tude,—and' that their slaves would only become
better by being Christians.”. The result of Bishop
Berkeley’s enterprise shows how much sincerity,;
that England, which then and ever since would turn
the world upside down to free slaves not her own, lia
to bestow upon the most feasible efforts to improve the
moral condition of those in which her own subjects
held a property. The depth of British philanthropy
¥jght always be measured by its pecuniary avails.
he views just expressed, show another thing, which
We would impress on oor-Planters,—that the idea of
giving systematic religious instruction to our slave
population is no new idea, of the other day’s origin,
but was: familiar to the thoughts of wise men, mere
♦h.n a century agoand who appear to have had a
clear perception of the reasons that malt®it proper.
No longer than ten or twelve years since, when the
plan of sending Missionaries to ourilacks was first
entered upon, we well remember the opposition it
raised among many of the Planters, who were
averse to it as an innovation, fraught with ill conse
quences, they could not tell what, but which they
Were determined not to risk. As all thinking men
foresaw, their fears have proved perfectly ground
less, and we venture to say, not one who has made
the experiment but will heartily Subscribe to th®
soundness of BisHbp Berkeley’s observations^^
What prejudice still exists, we are sure a very few
years more of trial will remove, and that man will
come to be regarded in South Carolina a monster,
as he. is, who, through selfishness and pusillanimity,
exerts the shocking despotism of sealing the mind
of his poor slaves to a knowledge of God and a fu
ture world. Such a man does not deserve to live. -
>•:~v- y„- zfr.vr r-:.-c •.^.■.*$ $vt
MISSIONARY MOVEMENTS IN BERLIN.
A letter from Berlin states that there has just
been formed, under the patronage of Madame
d’Eichorn, wife of the minister of public worship,
an association of ladies, for the purpose of sending
out, at their own expense, to Syria and the East
Indies, young women to aid the missionaries in
diffusing the tenets of Christianity among the fe
male part of the population. The association,
which counts among its members, almost all the
highest ladies of the capital, has published an ap
peal to unmarried women and widows who may
feel a vocation for the work in question. Such
persons as decide on going out, must pass a novi
ciate of two years at Berlin, during which period
they are to follow a course of theology, and get
acquainted with teaching by' practising in the fe
male schools. They are also to learn French and
English. - ■
SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN ADVOCATE.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1813. »
D3**The proceeds of this paper will be equally divided among all
he annual conferences, to be applied in spreading the Gospel and
in aiding distressed and superannuated preachers, and the widows
ind orphans of those who nave died in the work.
IRISH METHODISM
The political aflhirs of Ireland are, at the present
moment, engrossing much of the attention of the
world. The most sagacious minds are puzzled to
conjecture what the denouement of the existing agi
tation in that country will turn out. It is conceded
on all hands, that the noblest materiel, both as to
national character, population, natural resources, is
to be found in Ireland; ^hile it is equally trie that
the deadliest miseries overspread the country. So
that, instead of being as she might, the right arm
of Britain’s imperial power, she is only a vast mag
azine of inflammable elements, waiting but the oc
casion to explode with frightful consequences to the
empire. All calm and disinterested lookers-on
will probably agree that the great source of all the
evils of Ireland, is to be found in her want of a true
religionof a people well-instructed in its princi
ples and imbued with its saving influences. Under
these circumstances, it is matter of considerable in
terest to ascertain the extent and probable spread
of every form of Scriptural and vital religion. We
condense for the information of our readers, the la
test intelligence in our possession in reference to
the position and capabilities of Methodism in Ire
land.
Ninety-six years have elapsed since Mr. Wes
ley first arrived in Dublin, and gave the impulse.of
his personal influence and ministrations to that
work which Mr. Williams (one of the first Me
thodist preachers,) had successfully commenced a
short time before. Against many discouragements
and an opposition so fierce as sometimes to place his
life in imminent peril, he persevered in his efforts to
revive the doctrines of Apostolical Christianity in
their purity anfl power; and, in that island, as in
England, the result was not only the conversion of
thousands who joined the Wesleyan societies, but
the awakening of other Protestant churches from
the deep slumber in which they (especially the
Established Church,) had long been sunk. Faith
ful and laborious men have since, both oh the cir
cuits and mission stations, continued to carry the
word of life into the dark fastnesses of error, and
notwithstanding the peculiar and formidable diffi
culties which impeded their progress, and the large
annual loss by emigration, the numbers of the Wes
leyan body have, with little interrupRon, steadily
increased, and the Gospel has been preached in
very many places to which, but for this instrumen
tality, its sound would not have reached to the pre
sent hour. The establishment, twenty years ago,
of schools under the direction of the Wesleyan
Missionary Society, was a movement of the utmost
importance, and has more than realised any expec
tation that could reasonably have been formed of its
success. The schools have progressively prospered,
and are now in more efficient operation than at any
former period; the only source of regret m con
nection with them being their fewness, as compared
with the ground which, if sufficient funds could be
procured, might at once and most advantageously
be occupied. It 'is an instrumentality admirably
adapted to the circumstances of the country; would
that its value could be demonstrated on a more ex
tensive scale!
Still, however, very great and very peculiar diffi
culties lie in the way of the Wesleyan Ministers
and Teachers, in their efforts to evangelize Ire
land. It is true there is not now the same kind of
opposition which was manifested on the first intro
duction of Methodism; there are not riotous and
blood-thirsty mobs encouraged, if not led on, by
clergymen and magistrates, to assault the preach- j
era and their congregations in the principal towns ;
nor could a grand jury be found to imitate the ex
ample of those gentlemen in Cork, who, in 1149,
made the memorable presentment,—“AVe find and
present Charles. Wesley, to be a person of: ill
fame, a vagabond, and a common disturber ,pf his
Majesty’s peace, and we pray that he may be trans
ported but there in a spirit, of hostility not less
bitter than that which thus developed itself, al
though its expression w brought into accordance
with the altered aspect of affairs. Popery, always
opposed to evangelical godliness, is especially hos-1
tile to the Wesleyan system; for the Romish
pijgsts are fully aware that, although the Methodist
Ministers, may not wage controversial warfare
against them, they nevertheless preach the doc
trines of the Reformation with uncompromising fi
delity; and they are sagacious enough to know
that the introduction of scriptural light must issue
in the dissipation of the darkness of error. Bence j
they are anxious and increasingly active in their
endeavours to prevent the attendance of their peo
ple on either the public, means of grace, or the
school instruction of the WeSleyans. Unhappily,
however, this is not the only source from which op
position arises. 11 is not too much to say that many
of the clergy of the Established Church in Ireland
are as rancorous and indefatigable as the Romish
priests themselves, in their efforts to hinder the |
progress of Wesleyanism. Persons unacquainted
with the facts might have anticipated that the re
verse of this statement would be true; for it would
have seemed probable that where the common en
emy is so powerful, the different bodies of evangel
ical Protestants who, even collectively, are so infe
rior in numbers, would cultivate that strength
which subsists in union, y The Wesleyans of Ire
land have always, as a body, treated the Established
Church with courtesy and respect; and, in the day
of its severest trials, they afforded it an aid which
has since been requited with ingratitude and in
sult. The amount of friendly feeling which at one
period was manifested by a considerable number of
the clergy has, within a few years, experienced a
remarkable diminution, and not a few ministers of
the Establishment who once took part in the mis
sionary services and gave a general countenance
to the exertions of Wesl^ans, if not of other non
conformists, now not only abstain from every such
appearance of recognition and co-operation, but are
far more zealous in their endeavours to impede the
prosperity of Methodism and Dissent than to gather
sinners from the world into the Church of Christ.'
It is also to be observed that many of the Clergy
who are called Evangelical, are not at all more
Catholic in their bearing thah those who lean to
Puseyism. The doctrine of the Apostolical Suc
cession has been revived and very generally re
ceived by them, and this essentially intolerant dog-*
ma being found, as it often is, in connection with a
stringently Calvinistic creed, the result is a hos
tility to Wesleyanism as a whole, that is little less
than implacable. There are indeed exceptions, but
these are as rare as they are honourable; the gen
eral spirit at present exhibited by the Irish clergy
is so hostile to non-conformity, that an individual of
Catholic feeling cannot manifest brotherly kindness
to other denominations without exposing himself to
the censure of his more sectarian brethren. An
aged Irish clergyman has been knouftl to decline
taking a part, as he had done on previous occasions,
in the proceedings of a missionary anniversary, on
the ground that, though his own feelings were un
changed, the neighbouring clergy were so deter
mined to discourage Wesleyanism and dissent,
that he could not accept the invitation without
bringing on himself reproach, and, in a certain
sense, losing caste. *
It is a matter of devout gratitude to Him whose
blessing has granted prosperity at home and abroad
to that revival of Christianity known by the name
of Wesleyan Methodism, that, amidst these and
other forms of opposition, our ministers and mission
aries have been enabled to pursue their work with
so encouraging a measure of success. When we
add together the increase reported at the recent
Conference, and the number required to fill the
places of those who have emigrated, or have been
separated by death or other causes from the socie
ties, we find that not less than eleven or twelve
hundred new members have been added to the
Wesleyan Church in Ireland during the' last year.
The zealous and self-denying men who labour in
that arduous but interesting field, may therefore
thank God and take courage. It is true, they are
now entering upon the spheres of duty to which
they have just been appointed, amidst strange and
ominous aspects of public affairs; it seems impos
sible to anticipate the probable result of the politi
cal agitations by which Ireland is torn; and if there
should be an outbreak of the spirit of insubordina
tion into acts of open rebellion, many of them
would be exposed to especial peril, lodging, as jp
various instances they do, in the houses of almost
the only Protestants in the wild and unfrequented
districts of the country. But most of them are
men who would be moved by none of these things
from the work to which .the Head of the Church
has called them. During the sanguinary rebellion
of 1798, the Wesleyan Ministers were preserved in
safety, and permitted under the immediate sanc
tion of Government to hold their annual Confer
ence without interruption; “we enjoy,” said they,
“all the instituted and prudential ordinances, while
in various parts, houses of worship of all denom
inations are deserted; our Conference was not on
ly held without molestation, but by permission
of his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant.” Should
similar circumstances arise, the same providential
care may, we trust, be anticipated, preserving the
bush, though it may burn, from being consumed.
MISSIONARY LABOURS AMONGST THE
BLACKS.
We hope our readers will not overlook the con
cluding paragraph of an excellent article on this
subject from the Charleston Mercury, which will
be found in our missionary department There is
a large mass of testimony which might be adduced
to show, not only the capabilities of our coloured
population for Christian instruction, but the practi
cal advantages in every conceivable respect, which
grow out of ouch instructions. We shall take the
liberty to mention one fact which is matter of his
torical record, and Which is'tu be found in the Re
port of the Wesleyan Missionary' Society for 1804.
Soon after the commencement of the French revo
lutionary war, the Governor of Tortola'/ one 66ttye
West India Islands, received information that the
French of Guadaloupe meditated a descent on that
island. He immediately sent for the Rey. Mr.
Turner, the Sunerintendent of the Methodist Mis
sions in Tortola and the other Virgin Islands, and
Informed him of the intelligence, adding that there
was no regular force in the island adequate to the
defence - of it against an Invading foe, unless they
aimed the blacks; but they were afraid to do this
Unless he (Mr. Turner,) would put himself at the
head of them. Mr. Turner was consiOus that such
a step was not directly within the line of his min
isterial office; hut he considered that' the - island
was in imminent danger; and that if it were con
quered, all the religious privileges and blessings
which even the negroes enjoyed, would most pro
bably, be entirely lost; and also, that this was only
a defensive business; and for these reasons, he
consented, and was accordingly armed, with all
the negroefs. In a fortnight after this, a French
squadron made its appearance in Tortola Bay; but
the enemy being probably informed by some emis
saries, of the armed force of the island, which far
exceeded their own, gave up the design, and retir
ed. Soon after thir event, the Governor General
of the Leeward .islands sent to the Missionaries in
those islands, to.desire them to make a return of
all the negroes in their societies who were able to
bear arms. The return was accordingly made;
and a great part, if not all of them, were armed for
the defence of the islands, respectively, from the
confidence which the Governor General had in tlm
Missionaries and their flocks.
We mfy be allowed however, to state in connec
tion with the foregoing important fact, that what
ever civil or social advantages may be connected
with the labours of Methodist Missionaries among
the coloured population, the objects of these mis
sions are purely religious. The southern branch
of the M. E. Church which has under its supervi
sion so many thousands of these people, has given
forth time and again, the most distinct protest
against the doctrine'of ecclesiastical 'interference
with the social relations it finds established by con
stitutional law. Whatever plans may be started
for the change or abrogation of these relations;
whatever pretests may be plead; however a spuri
ous or even a genuine philanthropy may desire to
achieve something for the civil condition of this or
any other portion of our population;—it -belongs
to other agents, to civilians, to political reformers, to
associations of citizens, and not to associations
purely ecclesiastical, to engage in such matters.
-We disclaim any,—tho remotest conuection with j
the extra-spiritual sayings or doings, of this or the
other Conference, East or West, which may, in its
ecclesiatical character, have wandered out of its
legitimate sphere of operations, and taken in hand
things as foreign from its true province as would be
the discussion of women’s political rights, the ex
pediency o^capital punishment, or the unlawful
ness of criminal incarceration. Our business is
with men’s spiritual relations. We are content to
let alone what properly belongs to other functions
and offices; and claim an exemption from the con
demnation of the English satirist:—“ these seems
to be no part of knowledge in fewer hands than !
that of discerning when to have done.”
TIIE RESTRICTIVE RULES.
We should have been pleased if the editor of the
‘Northern Advocate,’ in noticing our position on
the subject of the Restrictive Rules, had felt free
to present to his readers the ipsissima verba of
either of our articles. His ‘better view’ of the
subject would perhaps have lost nothing of force
had the view he was reviewing been given as we
sketched it out He must allow us, however the
liberty of a word or two on his closing paragraph.
% “ It is abundantly evident that changes in our
economy ought to be made with the greatest care, i
and only where strictly necessary, but it is equally
plain that by making no changes we shall destroy
the system. Methodism was evolved by circum
stances, and it must ever retain the power of ac
commodating itself to the openings of providence
and the state of the world. Improvement is the
order of Methodism, and when its conventional
arrangements are not to be amended in a constitu
tional manner we shall deem it any thing but the
system adopted by John Wesley.”
The ‘changes in our economy’ against which
the Southern Christian Advocate is making a stand,
are changes in the fundamental principles both of
doctrine, precept and government. Concerning
conventional arrangements we neither a^hrm nor
deny any thing. They are wide of our present
mark. We maintain that there should be no pos
sibility of change as to doctrine. Let the Puseyites
talk if they will about the supplementing of holy
Scripture by the traditions of the early church;
and of the truths of Christianity developing them
selves with the growth of times posterior to the
Apostles; we repudiate the veiy thought of raising
tradition into a ‘joint authority’ with Scripture.
We say with Chillingworth. “whatever is netc in
(doctrinal) Christianity, is therefore false.” Our
articles of religion, our accepted standards of doc
trine cannot change, inasmuch as they are nothing
more, nothing less than Scriptural, everlasting
truth. It will be time enough to talk of improve,
ment in that line when a new revelation comes from
heaven. Nor can we reach any other conclusion
with regard to the “ General Rules.” The Metho
dist G. Church, upon its regular organization, de
liberately declared with respect to these “ Rules”
that they are taught by God in his written word,
and sanctioned by his Spirit in his work on every
truly awakened heart. Here then we hold. No
thing can bind authoritatively the conscience of a
Christian man but the will of God expressed in
his holy word. Our modem doctors of the tran
scendental school may announce what discoveries
they please in morals; but their whimsies go for
nothing by the side of the old-fashioned morality
of the New Testament. Jesus we know, and
Paul we know, but who are these 1 Who is to give
| a General Assembly or Conference, authority to
' * . ■ : ’ ■ ' . - .X ; " ,u
change the morals taught in God’s word, either by
enlarging a scriptural precept, or narrowing It with
in t|te original limits 1 Qdr Northern friends say
that the system of Methodistic morality will ha
destroyed, if no changes in the General Rules are
permitted. We must hasten after the ‘ inarch of
mind’ and keep up with the discoveries of out bk).
dem Illuminati, and adopt new-fangled notionii of
purity of heart and holy living; make provisions
iof supplementing and improving Christ's perfect
law' of liberty; or else go to destruction! .May
God save the church from the spread of such opiri
tone and counsel*. ^With regard to the distinctive
features of our ecclesiastical organization, it will
be time enough to defend them from the rage for
innovation, when any one seriously attacks our
clerical itinerancy, or our general superintendency,
by way of improving them. If the growth of the
church, or events now unforeseen shall call for a
modification of our existing polity, we are confident
that the General Conference Will listen with as
profound a respect to the voice and wish of the
great body of our laity, as they can possibly do to
the opinions of any priestly agitators, young or old.
Upon the Whole, then, we repeat,—let the foun
dations alone. Have a care how you dig about
them with the idle expectation of putting in better
stones than are now found there. Our projectors of
novel theories, whether in doctrine^r morals, are
only miners and tappers, we fear. Ground is al
ready broken, and a vigorous assault is preparing.
The New-York Resolutions have prevailed with
scarce a dissenting voice in the Northern and Eas
tern Conferences, By all their love for the Church,
and all their hope of her perpetuity and prosperity,
we. call upon the Southern Conferences to resist
the movement, .to the last man and the last battle
Made. ^ ,, V- M ,, -
—T. ’ ft 1
2 AN ADDRESS
Delivered at the annual Commencement of
, the Female College at Macon, Ga. By Rev.
A. Means, A. M., Prof. Phys. Sciences Emory
* ,College, «f*. ....... .
We have had the pleasure of reading this pro
duction, the delivery of which called forth the
loudest applause. Woman’s mission, and the fur
niture, intellectual >md moral, by which that mission
may be successfully accomplished, is tjie burden of
the discourse. On a theme as inspiring as this, an
imagination by many degrees less ardent than that
of our learned and accomplished friend would, of
necessity, kindle, and the axles of rushing thought
take fire by the rapidity of their own movements—
The only fault one can find with the address is, that
it is too brilliant; but in these days of prevalent dull,
ness and mediocrity, few will agree with the cap
tious critic who would clip the mounting wing of
genius, or hold back its flight from the glowing
heavens of invention. We shall do our readers
the favour of selecting several passages for their
perusal next week. ...
We have received a most valuable, able, and
interesting paper from Dr. Capers, on the subject of
the Missions to the blacks under the supervision of
the South Carolina Conference. It will grace our
columns next week. For the information of his
distant friends we will here say, that the Southern
Secretary sets out early next week on a tour
of visitation to the South-Western and Southern
Conferences, which will occupy him probably until
January. ' His health has improved considerably of
late; and we fervently trust a good Piovidence
will take care of him during his long and fatiguing
route.
The Hon. H. W. Hilliard.—We copy from
the Christian Advocate and Journal, the following
letter from Mr. Hilliard, Charge of the United
States near the court of Brussels, to Dr. Olin. The
writer, says the Advpcate,. requests Dr. Olin in a
note, to hand the letter to the editors of the Chris
tian Advocate and Journal for publication, “that my
friends,” he says, “ may hear from me and your book
at the same time.” But, instead of a strict com
pliance with this direction, Dr. Olin takes, the re
sponsibility of drawing black lines over all that part
of it which commends his book of travels, indicating
a prohibition to the editors, and thereby, as we
think, does injustice to his friend, Mr. Hilliard, and
to our readers. Now this is what we cannot sanc
tion, even in deference to the modesty of our friend,
Dr. Olin, and therefore give the whole letter, with
out paying the least attention to Dr. O.’s “ index
expurgatorius.” Our readers who know Mr. Hil
liard will be gratified in hearing from him; and
having ourself greatly commended the Travels in
Egypt, &c., we are too much pleased with the
strong corroboration of our opinion, from one so
competent to judge in such matters, to forego the
advantage by suppressing Mr. Hilliard’s remarks.
“Who shall decide when doctors differ 1” We
know no authorized tribunal but the public, and
therefore to the public we appeal.
Brussels, July 13,1843.
My Dear Sir,—I ought before this to have ac
knowledged your kindness in sending me a copy of
your very interesting book. 1 read it with the high
est satisfaction, not only as the production of a
friend, but as a most entertaining and valuable ac
count of scenes which one desires to have, above
all others, faithfully described. I could but wonder
that in your state of health you were able so thor
oughly to explore those regions, and so vigorously
to pursue researches attended with labour and
hazard. r
Egypt and the Holy Land are both fields of un
dying interest to mankind, and it is no small privi
lege to be able to read the narrative of one who
has so fully explored them, and who was so well
prepared for the task, you will permit me^say, by
shed
bringing to their observation a mind enriched with
learning, and guided by a pure Christian faith. 1
am particularly struck with the manliness with
which you give your assent to the traditions which
preserve so many consecrated spots in Palestine,
while many superficial observers make it a point to
question their claims to sacred recollections. The
great objects which arc met in the scenery of that
land must remain much the same as they were at
the time when those events transpired which have
thrown over them a sacred and immortal interest.
As 1 do not hope to enjoy the privilege of visiting
these scenes in person, l thank you most sincerely
for making me st^well acquainted with them.
We sailed fnsn$lt&»?York, as we expected, the
day after I say: you,.jjnltoafter a pleasant voyage of
twenty-one
the great at
feSfched England. We had
•or sailing in company with
•- V.' ' V\. ... •• ' .1 yN .. - '
rome very agreeable people, among whom wga the ..
Rev. Dr. Cutler, of Brooklyn, who is rendered at*’
tractive, both by hie good sense and hie piety. We ?
found England in the full beauty of its suhimer ver
dure. For rural scenery probably no country in
the world surpasses it;. its fields, its hedged, and its ^
cottages are beautiful, Its cities and its great
buildings did not strike me so much as these. Lon* *
don, to be sure, uf a city, but I doubt if ita atfrac- :
tipns are equal to those of Paris. While in London
I attended City Road chapel^and had the pleasure •
of hearing the Rev, Mr. Reese, formerly the repre
Beniative or the Wesleyan Methodists atthe Uen
eral Conference in the United States. He gave us ,
an admirable’’sermon, full'of soul and intellect,
abounding with views whose elevation was only
equalled by their tenderness. He presented this
idea,—that the most cultivated of. the ancient
heathen nations never entertained any worthy con- v.
ception of a supreme Being ; that with all their
learning they were never able to fill the heavehs
with higher beings than men of a larger stature and
greatdr powers than themselves; and hence they
sought representations of this conception of divinity
in the works of their own hands. But the Chris*
tian, taking his views of the supreme Being from -
the Bible, regards him as’immortal and invisible, ^
possessed of all those sublime attributes which con
stitute him the only true and living God. He there*
fore seeks no visible representation of this invisible
Being, but worships him in spirit and in truth. J
After a short stay in England I came, with my
family, to Brussels. Mrs. H., I am happy to say,
bore the voyage well, and 1 hope that she will find
great advantage from a residence in Europe. I
promise myself the pleasure of hearing from yon
very soop, and you may be assured that your letters
will be very welcome; for though we have turned
our backs upon our country and bur friends, we have
not cpasc&tofeel the strongest interest in them-—
With thVmest wishes for the prosperity of the in
stitution over which you preside, and for your per
sonal happiness, 1 am very faithfully,'
• >V~- ■' 'v‘v^';Ybiirs, ' : H.W.Hatuim^:.
* . > ...
‘ ■' .... , ‘ • ■" ■■ -■
Modern Miracles.—The walls of Liverpool
gays the London Times haye been covered with
large placards, intimating that aiTauthentic account
of a ijiracle, performed through the prayers and
intercession of the pious Father Mathew, with other
reminiscences of the same kind, will be published
immediately by a man of the name of John Marsh,
of that town. The miracles here referred to, and \
of which the promised catchpenny publication into
contain* an “authentic” account, are said to have
been performed on the person of a boy, about 14 .
years of age, who had been for months deprived of •
the use ot his limbs, but who, on being taken to the
“pious father,” and having the sign of the cross
made on him, and a few prayers >epeated over him,
regained all his physical strength, and walked home
perfectly cured. Absurd and incredible as the
story is, one of tflie Liverpool newspapers, respecta
ble not only in character but circulation, tells it with
a good deal of circumstantiality, and says that it is
currently reported and believed, not by the igno
rant and superstitious natives of the sister kingdom
merely, but by persons of judgment, not easily to be
imposed upon. The statement, however, is wholly
untrue, so far as the “persons of judgment” are
concerned, and, of course, so far as the story itself
goes. The only two individuals to. whom miracu
lous powers were attributed in recent days were
Father Matthew and Bernard Cavanagh. The lat
ter was proved to have been a noted imposter, and
the former has invariably denied that be ever pos
sessed any powers of the kind. In the early part
of his career in Ireland, his miracle-working quali
ties were said to be of an astonishing description,
and multitudes of “ the lame, the halt, and the
blind” were conveyed scores of miles to him for the
purpose of getting cured; but be told them then, as
he tells others now, that he was not possessed of
any powers beyond those possessed by other men.
His assertion was, nevertheless disbelieved; nolens
xolens, he must be possessed of miraculous powers;
and what were then attributed to him in Ireland
ate now being attributed to him in England also. , 1
Bishopric of Jerusalem.—At the July Month
ly meeting of the Society for Promoting Christian
Knowledge, a letter was read from Bishop Alexan
der, of which the* following are extracts:_
.“There is an immense work to be done, and al
though we are surrounded by difficulties apparent
ly insurmountable, yet prospects of usefulness in
creasingly present themselves. Whilst the build
ing of our material church still remains in statu
quo (which, however, we expect by every post to
be again put in active operation,) the services of '
our church are regularly and fully conducted daily
on Mount Zion, in our temporary chapel, under
circumstances of much encouragement. The con- .
gregation though necessarily small, is gradually in
creasing. On Sunday before last, I baptized four
Isrmlites, two of whom were rabbis; and as, in
the case of adults, our church requires they should
be confirmed as soon as convenient, I administered
to them that sacred rite on the morning of the
Holy Ascension-day. We have generally from
twenty to twenty-five communicants at our regular
monthly celebration of the Lord’s Supper, and fre
quently many more. We have just commenced
a College for training’ Hebrew converts as mis
sionaries ; with it we have connected a little school,
and there seems a disposition on the part of the na
tive Christians to send their children; and if we
could open a general school for boys and girls,' I
have reason to believe numbers would attend.” . *
Dr. Olin. — The health of President Oli'n, says
Dr. Bond in the last number of the Christian Ad
vocate, had so much improved before his visit to the
New-England Conference, that we had settled
down in a confidence of his entire restoration to his
former vigor, without further Jet or hindrance.
He had, however, an attack of the prevailing epi
demic in Boston, which considerably impaired his
strength. We found him greatly recruited, how
ever, and the recuperative energy of his constitu
tion manifested in repairing, so readily, the injury
sustained by a severe attack of influenza, give still
stronger promise of the ultimate, and even speedy
recovery of his wonted health and vigor. I make
these remarks for the gratification of the Doctor’s
numerous friends, especially in the south, who may
not have other means of appeasing their great anx
iety on the subject. : , , . J . «*. ,
Powell on the Apostolical Succession_
Since the signal failure of the Rev. Mr. Perceval
to answer this masterly book, a second attempt has <«'
been made by an Irish clergyman of the name of ' '
Stopford. This latter writer labours to invalidate
the testimonies adduced from ancient writers by
Mr. Powell, and makes plentiful accusations against
him, of wilfully garbled and falsified quotations.
To this Mr. Powell has replied, sustaining amply
all his former positions. It is said in London that
Mr. Stopford had fairly earned a castigation, and ■’