SPIRIT OF JEFFERSON.
ISSN'S-"WLY 3
TUKSDIV HORNI.VCi JULY 26, 1848.
DBMOOEATIO NOMINATIONS.
FOR PRESIDENT,
Gin. LEWIS CASS,
OF MICHIGAN.
r oa viceTresident,
GEN. WM. 0. BUTLER,
Or KESTCCKV.
MARTIN VAN BUREX.
WeliiiJ in ?Iino3t every Whip p" per that comes
(u mir nfiice, some taunting of the Democracy
nbojt the coarse of the man whose name heads
this article. Why tlii-3 constant eflbrt to connect
t'up treachery of Van Buren with the Democratic
j.arly, we cannot tell. Every one who kno.\6
*ny tJiifijj of the history of the government since
183J, must know, that Van Buren was the friend
unJ consistent supporter ofSouthero interest from
that perioii until the cloze of his adrainstration in
1311. We defy the Whigs to produce one single
act of his, during the whole of that period, which
do.-s not sastain our position. Hut can they, we
would ask, siy as much for Henry Ci ty ? J..H us
co.npare the course of these two distinguished
men ill the S;natoof the United States, the for
th :r presiding. It will be recollected that for a
fe v yearn previous to 1835, the whole South was
almost completely inundated, by the distribution
through the mail, of abolition documents, of the
mist infliinatory character, as too many instances
pro/ed. Towards the clo*e of Van Buren's term
aa Vico I'resident, a hill was introduced into Con
gress to prohibit the circulation of these " incen
diiry documents" through the mail. This, as
every one can well imagine, became at once an
important, tfad to a very great extent, a testqnes
lion upon the subject involved. While it was as
certained, that the vote in the Senate upon it,
would be an exceedingly close one. The South
stood in fear and trembling for the fate of the bill,
dreiding, with but too much cause, the conse
?juoncea of its defeat. When the vote was taken
Martin Van Buren wasat his post, but where was
Xlenry Clay? A few moments before the nyes
and noes were called, npon the passage of thi9
hill, Henry Clay, the rescue to whom the Southern
Whigs have always pretended to look for safety in
j II j jioaroi uaugur, ?ubuiiu-u inmBbii ?????
or in oilier words, deserted bis poet. The vote
was a tye. The responsibility of giving the cast
ing vote devolved upon Yan Burcn. He wavered
no?. II is vote was given on the aide of the South,
and thus the bill became a law. Clay'6 absence
o;i this occasion has never been ar.counted for!?
Van Huron, it is true, has fallen from this noble
position to which hie course while in the Federal
councils, had elevated him, but in his fall he has
carried no Southern interests with him. The
South has refused her confidence to him since
IS 10. Notwithstanding the ignominy and dis
grace that attach to his name, how stands the
case between him and Clay, alter the contrast of
their public acts on the occasion referred to.is
brought in reyiew ? The universal response would
bu in favor qJVan Buren. Then we say, if Van
lia a traitor, his treason was not shown iu th<?Se
nile Chamber, nor in the Executive Chair, but af
ter he had been robbed of his powers for mischief.
He is abandoned, while Mr. Clay is still hugg<d
*?? the bosom by Whigs of every section of tl c
Union! We think, too, that Millard Fillmore
was in Congress at this time. Will our Whig
friends teil us how he voted on this (|?estion ?
CHARACTERISTIC.
Tho Worcester True Whig, gives (6ays the
Baltimore American,) the following anecdotc,
which sounds like truth :
Soon after Cass was made Secretary of War,
Scott meeting Taylor said to liim, "All ! Taylor
?a good appointment that. We have a Secre
tary now who understands our wanttj." Taylor
has two veins in his forehead, that when he is ex
cited, swell out as large as a child's finger.
Theft* veins began to enlarge. "I don't know
that,General," said he, "ho knows his own wants.
When ho was Governor of Michigan territory,
he ordered me to send him twelve of my best look
ing and tallest soldiers, and don't you think the
rascal kept six of 'em to row his boat for two
years, and they were paid by the Government as
my men."
If true, then, it will be again verified. Cess
will have not only 'six' but six thousand and more
of Taylor's men?(bo brave Volunteers of our
War?to shove his boat again frora its moorings,
(in 1 with a fair wind and tide, securely float it
across the turbulent waters of political strife, for
Your years more. The Cass ship is now the only
?o ie that will not be ?engulphed in the maelstnx n>
of destruction, to which w ild fanaticism is endea
voring to drive the great ship of state.
!U* The article of the Martiosbarg Gazette, is
without point, bo far t.l least as we are concerned.
T^ie " raw head ami bloody bones" which its edi
tdr has<itscovercd,are rather conjured by his own
imagination, than by the equally keen perception
x>f others, alike interested. So far from the editi r
of the Baltimore Argus " invading the repqee of
private families in order to amuse the public at
the expanse of unobtrusive members of society,''
he only designed, as the articlSJjore upon Us fate,
i ptuyfikMid for aorae peculiar '
political position which it was supposed the grn
tlomai in question had embraced.. As to the
" ueigkt," 300 pounds ortfcore, of the very rer fee
table individual to whom allusion is made, we are
jet to learn that it hksbofn 'either lessened or Tn
creosed by the paragraph. And as to tho " fixed
facl" of his rotundity, we have toohigh an esti
mate of his good sense to believe, that he would
be offended, <or construe it as an effort to " in
vale the repose of private families," as the Gc
xatte would have it appoar, by so inaoceat ailu
eiea to the 'matter.
' ?
O" We are requested to ?ay a meeting c( the
General Committee of Arrangements, will be held
ilt the Town-Hall, over the Market-House, on
ThursSay evening next, at 7^ o'clock, livery
memberia expected to be present.
SET The "Bank -of tho Valley has declared a
semi anuual dividend oT per eetrtmn?4 per
cent, of which is paid to stockholders, -and the i
per cert, retained as the Slate bona?.
tCTAt a Democratic maf9 meeting, recently
liciC in Indianapolis, Ind , thirty teren Wh'gs re
nounced their party, declaring that "they would,
?ote for Caw and Butler. ' Huzza for the Hoosier
v>- > ? , .,!0s..i
ART UNIO OF PH]i,.U)ELI'lIlA.
We liave had the pleasmh of seeing, at the
Office of Benj. F. WASHyjoTtin, a splendid; mei
zo'int Engraving by SartJbju?'J inches by 18, re
presenting "The intetJj^K.of John Kno* with
Mary, Queen-of Kcots^Ha^rosentatmti picture
for the year 18-J8, to the sifejcribera of ti.e Art
Union of Philadelphia. THIS certainly one of
the most elegant and finisliedongraving that we
have ever beheld, and speaks eloquently in favor
of fostering American Art.
Tho Art Onion ofPhiladelpitfs, was founded front
purely patriotic motives?lo^ive encouragement
to Americnn Artists, and elf-ate the standard of
the at of design among us. 3t is ba.<-pd upon the
following principles
? The sum of five dollars constitutes membership
for the year.
Bach year a magnificrntengraving is procur
el of an American At s\ frtwfc which copies aie
furnished to all the members; !ree of all charge.
The annual surplus fu/i'J, -.vliich arc very cot ?
siilerable, are apportioned into sums ranging from
twenty up to Ik'O or three hrvr.dred dollars hs the
means will justify, and are il?:ributed among the
members by Lot. The in<-tr'>er drawing a prize,
will receive a certificate to ttjitt effect, specifying
amount &c., with which certificate lie can pur
chase an Oil Painting or an? other work of Art,
of ualue according to the ainmint of his priz-,
from any exhibit on of American art in the Un -
ti ll Sta'es. ?
Thus for $5 each stthsctfifjer is furnished with
a splendid engraving cer/ain, which cannot he
procured inar.y of the CiticS.at double the amount
of his subscription, nnd has the chance of draw
ing a splenei to;. Painting,-worth from SO to 30C
dollars. While then some h'indred of fine paint
ings are distributed through the Country annual
ly among the subscribers, of course Americai
Artists are encouraged to'lint extent ill the sale
of their works.
As this is a matter appealing to our pride and
patriotism as Americans, while at the same
'imc it renders a full equiva'pnt to its subscribers
We Jiope our citizens, /is thi;ymay find it enliven
i Jilt, will call at the Office of Mr. \V. w ho h.i.'
b-'en appointed an Honorary Secretary and sub
scribe.
The engravings are ready;,for delivering to sub
scribers no?v. The dis'rilnMion of prizes lor the
y-'ar 18 t8 will not take plitce until the 15th o
October next. All subscriptions paid in before
the 18th day of October, ?'ill come in for sj
chance in the distribntiooi Persons being on
of the neighborhood, will have their orders at
tended to by writing to Mrj Washington at thi>
place, and their pictures delivered safe and freeo
THE VOLt'Ji TEHItf
A Etatemenl is going Use rounds of the news
papers to llie elleet that tl.< Twiggs Riflemen, by
a vote of 135 out of 133, pnssed resolutions de
nouncing llie Administration and Gen Jutler,
ami pledging themselves to support neither. As
nocompany has, or can have, *s many as 133 mem
bers, there is evidently soirc mistake here, J lie
Cincinnati Enquirer confirm this opinion. < >n
the authority of several olik. rs and men, 't 8,a,c?
(hit no such meeting took |-Uce as alleged, that
a vote was taken when 31."I ihcm were present,
and stood 30 for Cass and 5 for Taylor, and that
there are nol more than friur Taylor men in the
whole ccmpany. The Volunteers bate no just
cause to complain of either Hie Administration or
Gen. Butler. The reason y !>y they were not dis
charged at New Orleans, *fas because the Gov
ernment justly feared that a discharge at such a
distance from home, ttouliHesuIt in the niostd's
astrous consequences to thft volunteers, and a Ut
ile reflection will convince any one that the go
vernment in bringing them as near to the points
where they enlisted .is possible, did nothing more
than a proper regard for .the volunteers, war
ranted. . '
beruvvilu: TURNPIKE.
We have hitherto neglected to urge, as we
should have done, the importance of our citizens
goinn- to work at once to pecure the completion
of this work. We do hop?, for the convenience
of our entire community, aiyl especially tlic pros
perity of our town, that the people may at once
brsin lo act as becomes them in this matter
The "Free Press" very properly says, that hut
little more than ?2000 arc now w anting to fill up
the private stock-and ycUvill it he credited tnal
a community like this carrot or will not rai=e
such a pittance ? ,
The legislative subscription was liberal un
the circumstances-and if }Uere should bo a fail
ure to commence the work.-within two years, 1
subscription may never be Renewed, because this
region of tho State has already received even more
than its share. i'r.
The shortest way to consummate the schemc,
is for those who have ulre*jly subscribed to add ? -
little more, and securc the jvork while il is witlnr.
ilisir reach. . _
CORRECT PKTU HIiS.
Mr. Jons W. Bear hatf ivpeued rooms at tho
Court House for the purpose of receiving the vis
its of thoso whp may defciro Daguerreotypes ?
Air B. has in bis possession the best apparatus
that has ever been in our fface, or else is the best ,
operator?probably both.cijmbined?for Ins pic- ,
tares are certainly the moH correct dolineat.ons |
of the originals that we hvSecver seen. Having
examined his specimens w,a can speak thus pr-si
lively, and all who desire.'good pictures will do ,
well to" embrace tho preset1*- opportunity. 1 !"? ,
card will ho found in anotjti'r column. |
The "Harkisosbuw; KM'uniicAS," a spirited I
?,nl uncompromising Wjjifr paper in the hear. 1
or the "Tenth Cegron'-tif Democracy, comes u.
us in an entire new dr?ss- Its- typographical (
appearance is very neat.ajtd vide the hetcri. Icr f
s*r?;imont3 of ll?o editor*?politically, we wish ^
ibera every paecess. >???>> " i
Free Soil Movemest iti'Virginia.?Geo. Rye. ?
of Woodstock, f. Free Soil Whig, publislted a no- (
tice in the last "Tenth Jfjfton,* proposing the t
holding of a meeting at Woodstock, on the I9in i
day of August, for ihe pnrp>se or forming a Free
Soil Electoral Ticket for Virgiui*. ? The " IVnth .
Legion," prefaces the notice oT the meeting with ,
this remarks ft? | ' I
"It-ia not to be inferred from this notice that (
the Democracy or this comity, or any ^r.W.i of (
them will vote for the camitilateof the UtiCa Con
venTion. The mover in*.* matter has hereto- 1
tore acted with the Whig; party, but tojuscs to
support1' Old Zac?"
Deaxji of A* OffIc^r.?Maj. Eraitus B.
Smith, comroiisaTy of thii S. Army. died at N. :
Orleans on Hie 11th inst. ; lie had just returned
from Mexico. - ? r
O- A "plain bub" shtv l ha*o a place in otr
next paper. -
Mobbsk ? T*XA?i?S?r. Samuel ttoMiiiw, for
merly orPetersborg, Va.. where his fam'i^stillrc
side, was recently. bruUB ? tnnrJered in Te*as-!
(CT GenTPillow adJrf4rd a DempcratictnMt
i in" al Philadelphia on^e4Bes4ay, baring been
\ u-^ted upon by *.coo?W?te* for" thatpurpoB?.
? ' ' 0 i , ;
S P I hi
GEN. BUTMiyS HlTStAJflTY.
A Touching Testimonial.
J low beautiful is the following testimonial, from
his oSto band, to the kindness of heart and true
Christian charity of the illustrious commander-in
chief of the army of occupation.
Gen. Boiler's order, pardoning all persona wi
der sentence of death, and prisoners in confine
ment; <s published. It iii accompanied by a letter
to lli? President of ihe Philanthropic Society of
Mex?tot who applied for the pardon. lie says:?
?'IE will be seen from these orders that I have
extended a free and full pardon to .all Mexican
prisoners, including those of the company of San
Patricio, and to all Americans whom our own pur
poses of discipline do not obsolufely require to be
retailed for a lime in confinement. The prison
ers f.onteuced for murder and robbery, In whose
Iieh4tf is mado your appeal of May 24, wil! be
liberated eoeoon as the troops shall have evacua
ted (his country. Their offence was of the black
est character; but, even in so grave a case, I
have beeii unwilling to desecrate the joyful mo
meiftiof peace by the shedding of blond."
ATinan whoso heart is so truly in the right
plin--?, may well be trusted with any post to
J which it may be the pleasure of the people to ele
[ vatcihim.
'I'liBiC wicked men, stained with guilt of the
i decpst dye, covered with the best blood of their
co rjsdes and countrymen, steeped in the infamy
wlia-.li belongs to the traitor, the robber, and the
j niui'I'jrer alone, were lying in chains and in dtin
j geo^a, awaiting or undergoing the infliction ol'the
: justand condign punishment which had been fair
ly and impartially awarded them. Strict justice
wesi'd have demanded that these penalties should
have been fully carried into effect.
fFut though their offences were of" the black
est character, even in 30 grave a case," says Gen.
Bi.tlcr, "I have broil unwilling to desecrate the
joyful moment of peace, by the shedding of blood."
How beautiful the idea?how admirable the ino
; tivi;!
I '? 1 have ef.es cnwii.i.tsg to desecrate the
Jov: UL MOMENT OF TEACE BY the SUEDDING OF
BLoi'K."
J.f there be any of the Christian virtues more
admirable, more holy, more eweet to the soul
j than the others, it is that of Mercy*. Mercy?by
I which a sin-steeped world is to he saved from de
struction. Mercy which redeemelh even 'the
,tlii?fon the cross ' Mercy " which is nobility's
true badge," and which "is thrice blcBsed," as
wc'M to hi.n who grants as to him who receives.
And yet for this pure, lofty, and holy act, has
Ci-n. Butler been condemned by his political ene
? Carlisle Volunteer.
jmmCiAM ltlOK'JiKCKA- ??? ia ?""w" ,,I"W
the remains of the brave and indomitable Major
Gen. Daniel Morgan, famous for his own and the
iiort>ic deeds of liis riflemen, in the revolutionary
w;>r, now lay in obscure repose in a grave yard at
Winchester. We learn from the Republican that
il has been determined to remove the remains of
Gen. Morgan and his celebrated " Dutch Mess,"
John Shultz, Peter Laud;, Jacob Sperry, Adam
Kurtz, Charles Grimes and^ Adam Heiskell, to
Mount Ilebron Cemetary, near that place, and to
cres t there a suitable monument to the memory
a( those patriots of the revolution?the Cemetary
Company having made a donation of a lot 33 by
50 feet for that purpose. A committee has been
ippnintcd to make collections and receive sub
,cri('tions in a,ii of that object.
a rHmrw.au.. S. Brf.kt, formerly a Re
ptefonlative in Congress, nnd for many years a
liftingnishcd member of the Washington Bar,
dieil recently, of apoplexy, in St. Martinsville,
l^oiiisiana.
HT From 1 SI 3 to 1831, Gen. Cass held the of
lice of Governor of the territory of Michigan, and
iiv was seven limes nominated to this office by
r..?ir Biicccssivc Presidents, am! seven times con
lrm ?d unanimously by the Senate of the United
5 ales, nnd during this whole period there whs
rs-t a single representation made against him by
tl?* people of the territory. This fact of itsell,
should brand with infamy his calumniators now,
n to his actions then.
? ii r The return of our brave volunteers from
Mexico is impatiently awaited by their fellow
litizcns, who have watched every movement of
he .-ampaign, with the deepest interest, and with
h? aching hearts of relatives and friends. Some
10 doubt even of our Virginia Regiment sleep in
he quietude of death in the Vallie3 of Mexico ,
or them lias gone up the grateful prayer, hallow
;d by sincere patriotism and sympathy. For those
?viio have survived llie toils of the march and the
perils of the climate, there remains the joyous
.velcome of home and peace?the public acknowl
edgement of our heartfelt thanks, and the warm
ribute of praise and admiration. Col. Ilamtramck,
ifter a flying visit to his home and family, has re
urned again to " Old Point" to superintend the
li.tmissal qf his regiment. From the 1st to the
Oth or August, it is believed the whole Regiment
vill have arrived.
S.r Among the arrival of the Kentucky troop?,
ve notice the name of our young friend, Jona M.
5,vvt>er> son of Dr. S.C.Snyder. He returns, wo
earn, in good health, and discharged his duty as
Vssistant Surgeon to the4lh Regiment, inainan
ler highly satisfactory to his division, and evi
enred skill that augurs well for his future usc
ul'ness in his profession. _____
8,T We havo been shown a letter from Lt. John
Ivis of the Jefferson Company, to his wife, dated j
Irar.ns, July 5th. He states that the Regiment
lo embark on the Glli, and there can hardly
ia a doubt that our Company will reach their
iMJieB early in the next month. All were in good
chilli and fine spirits.
injury to Wheat.?We learn from the Fred
rfek Examiner that the farmers in that county
r?: complaining that their wheat i? beginning to
pr;iut. In many instances it is said to have been
ifared to such an extent as lo amount to one
litd of Vhc CTop. This is owing to the heavy and
0.1tinocd rains for ft week or more; but whilst
1,?; wheat is sprouting therefrom ihe-corn isgroio
ng . Tlic -one wiH ho ^ set-off to the other.
Dakiel Webster sot for Tatdor?A-writer
n lhe N. Y. Evening Post, of July 14, says that
Ir. Webster was invited lo address the late rati
catioH Taylor meeting ia New York city, but de
listed, and gave his reason?. The Taylor com
i^lteo have tried to keep them secret, but they
aye leaked, out. They are to the effect:
" That Southern Statesmen have monopolized
h?j highest office in our Government four-fifths
rf ihe tim" since the Declarationof Independence,
g the exclusion of Northern men equally gifled
ipil equally capable, and he thinks the moment
lis now.arrived when a atapd should be taken by
lie Nijrth ; for. hiaf art he cannot support, neither
??0I ho publicly oppose the election of General
' ThePost writer sftates that the above is an
hentrc. ?
Bbtttxg ?By a l*w of Pennsylvania, any per
ic?ti who bets even a dime on the result of the Pre
i lential election is deprived of. his vote.
-CXPf May.?There are now about '3000 viai
tfnrm the Island, and all the hotels are well pa
rinizal'bybparde rt.
T U Jb J Jbi JLV Hi i
- ? ? ;i'HT
^h*copying tlye articleiB^SffTfiuifKWnber, from
the Natc'ue* paper, announcing the arrival of Ex
Gov. McNutt at his home, ie had no opportuni
ty of ascertaining the date of the paper, having
copied it second-handed from the Lexington (Va.)
Valley^Sttn By the following from .the Lynch
burg Republican, of July 20th, it will be seen that
Gov. McNtitt addressed tho Democracy of Camp
bell county, on the 14th inst Hence, the noticc
we published in our last, must have had. reference
to some former visit of Mr. McNott and his lady,
and as it is probable he is yet eojoprniog in our
Valley, WB may again have the pleasure of hear
ing him at our grand Democratic ral'y in August
next.
From ilie I?ynclibnrg Republican.
Go\\ McNutt of Mississippi arrived in our
town on Friday last, and lefi on yesterday.^ By
request he addressed the Democratic Association
on Saturday night, and ^a^B undivided satisfac
tion to his Democratic friends of l.ynchbur,/?
His speech was an interesting and effective one
ably vindicating the principles and candidates of
the Democratic party, and vividly portraying the
reckless inconsistency and deception of our ad
| versarics. He also took occasion to correct and
repel the many misrepresentations of his late
speech in Jefiert on county, now going the rounds
in the Federal press. He denieu havingsaid that
Gen. Taylor was a man of crnel'y, but had only
said, to repel (he Whig s'ory about Gen. T.'s mo
rality and christian-like disposition, what every
body knew to be a fact, that he was a petulant
man, a man of strong impulses?and swore terri
bly. He said that such a disposition was not in
consonance with that of Washington, of whom it
is said to be the patern.^ He also set himselfright
upon the veto question, (\nd the subject of repudi
ation, which he'saiff vkas not a practical question
any where out of his Stale.
The Governor is not an orator by any means,
but a clear logical and-forcible speaker, very flu
ent and ready, and appears to bo one of the beat
informed politicians we have overseen.
The thanks of the Democracy of Lynchburg,
were unanimously tendered our distinguished
visiter, for his able and interestingaddress before
them, when Hie meeting adjourned bouyant in
spirits.
DEATH OF GOV. SHUNX.
The Philadelphia papers of Friday came to us
clothed in mourning, on account of the death ol
Gov. Francis 11. Shunk. A despatch to the led
ger, dated Ilarrisburg, Thursday ntght, says :
The Governor breathed his last this evening,
about 7 o'clock. His death vva3 calm and devoid
of pain.
.Last night, about J1 o'clock, his hands and
arms commenced getting cold. This morning
about ) 1 o'clock, death's hand was laid upon his
IU W 11 CAUCiimiust. |
ing?slowly but surely the cold king advanced to
his heart,and a few minutes before 7 o'clock his
spirit was released.
His last words were addressed to his weeping
wjfe?" Don't fret, Jane, I am anxious for the
end." Iiis (amily and relatives, the heads of de
partments, bis physicians and one or two friends
were present at the final moment.
Though expected, the event has struck a chill
over the town. He leaves a property of only
about S4.000 to sustain his family.
In compliance with Iii3 repeated wish, his re
mains will be buried attheTrappe, in Montgome
ry co., his birth place. It is about 25 miles from
Philadelphia.
The funeral cortege, with his tody, tvill start
from hero in the cars on Saturday morning, at 8
o'clock, remain in Philadelphia over night, and
proceed on Sunday morniug to the place of inter
ment.
The Whig State Committee, to-day, fixed on
the 31st of August for holding the Whig State
Gubernatorial Convention in that city.
VIRGINIA REGIMENT.
We had the pleasure, on Saturday last, of wel
coming back to Richmond, our friend Col. Jous
fr\ H/imtkamck, commander of the Virginia Re
giment. He reached tlie city in tlia Southern
Cars on Saturday morning, having broken up bis
headquarters in Mexico on the 14th of June, on
which day the Regiment turned its march home
wards.
We were gratified to.loarn from the Colonel
tlmt his regiment now nutters nine hundred and
sixty men and officers, all of whom may be cx
prctcd .to reach Old Point between the 25th and
30lh of the present month.
[Richmond Republican.
O" Col. Hamtramdk reached his residence at
Shepherdstown on Monday week, where he re
mained for a clay,and then proceeded toOld Point,
to superintend iVio discharge of the Regiment.?
It will be remarked that the health of the Virgin
ia Regiment has been better preserved than that
of any other body of Volunteers in the service;
and this, we are snre, is to be attributed to the
rigid discipline early enforced, and the care taken i
by the commander and his officers in reference to
the comforts and diet of the men. Temperance
was a striking characteristic.
Lieut. Porterfield of Berkeley has also reached
home.
THE I,ATE CAPTAIN MASON.
The following extract of a loiter from Captain ;
Miller, Assistant Quarter Master, U. S. Army, i
to the Hon. James M. Mason, dated "Jalapa, Mexi
co, Juno 28, 1848," is publfehed for the informa- (
tion of the public*-?
" I have this day exhnmed and placod in a lead- 1
en coffin, the remains of your gallant kinsman, j
Capt. STEVENS T. MASON. I have given
orders by which the body will be sent to Vera
Cruz to-morrow morning at 9 o'clock, and I have '
taken every possible precaution for its safe trans- J
mission to that point."
Subsequent information, recieved at tho office
of the Quarter Master General, at Washington, J
af cures us that the remains had been received at
Vera Ci uz, and shipped on board the ttcimer Pal
metto for New Orleans, on the 2d instant, to to ,
forwarded immediately to the Quarter Master at
Baltimore.?Loudoun Whig, July 21. (
Fire at Providence.?A fire broke out at 6
Providence, R. I., on Sunday, in an old building
on North Main at., owned by H B. Drowns and ,
others, which with several adjoining houses was 1
consumed. The following are the sufferers by 1
this fire : ,
J. O. &? J. R. Potter,--Jewellers, loss @10,000 i
?insure*! 85,000; Car(.'(;iiter &. Congdon. crock- t
ery dealers, lost t heir entire stock, between 9 and I
?!10,~0<r?0'iii value?inemid. Rufns Greene, jr., I
and Edward Beverly, loSB'small; Greene and Ar- i
nold lost ahont $1,000?insured ; Work &. Hod
ges, merchint tailors, stock damaged?insured ; i
B. & D. Taylor, dry goo;! jobbers, store much c
damaged?insured. The: Transcript and the ?
Herald prinliug offices safTored some damage.? r
II. Oldham, engraver, and Abel Poster, grower, t
had their stock's damaged by water, the latter con
siderable. He is insured for $1,200. '
The Trial of the Slave Abductors com
menced in the Criminal Court, at Washington, '
yesterday, and exciting investigation is expected
to occupy at least the entire week. The Hon.
Horace Mann, of Mass.,and D. A. Hall, of Wash
ington city, will appear (ts counsel Tor Drayton
and Sears. Messrs. Carlisle and Ratcliffe trader
take thd defence of Chester English. It is stated
in the New York Tribune, that ex-Governor Se
ward will also appear as counsel for the prison
ers. A laTge number of witnesses has been sum
no ted.
Too Hot Emttrel-t.?They have very hot
weather in New Orleans ; so Intense ha# been the
heat, the Crescent says,that tbe people there have
been compelled to draw their breath with cork
screws.
Business is like fishing?if yon wist to suc
ceed, .you must anchor once in a while. To be
constantly changing is to. keep yourself out of
change for all eternity. As Tom Hood observes,
the man thit is always stirring must be a spoon.
U ? fJ ss .
POL.ITIC AI> PHOPJttETS.
Prom the I-inciter Intelligencer.
In those dajrs many false Prophclsahnll arise.9
We discover that many of the Whig prints are
gain filled with all sorts of calamitous predict
ions, which shall come to pass-in case General
3ass shall be chosen the next President. These
lotitical sybils foretell and depict the " ruin" of
hVcountry, consequent upon that event, with a
legree of mathematical accuracy, truly terrible.
5ne or the first calamities, say they, will be a
?Var with England, which Gen. Cass has been
itriving to produce some time. One way ofjudg
ng the merits of fortune-tellers, and of testing
heir claims to public confidence, is to apply to
Jicm the criterion Of the past. Let us arraign
he prophets of the Whig party by this standard.
In the days of the Black Cockade, Illuminati,
lacobinism, &.c , the most awful disasters were
jredicted to result from the election of Thomas
Ieffersox. Bibles were to bo burned, churches
o be demolished, property t<5 bfe equally divided,
ind all the foundations of society uprooted by the
Cioths and Vandals of Democracy. These ca
amities were all certain to follow, in case tha
irch Jacobiueand Atheist, Tom Jefferson, shouU
succeed totfie Presidency 1
Jefferson was elected, notwithstanding, am
.vhat followed ? VVere the predictions of Feder
ilism fulfilled ? By no means. Churches am
schoolhouses multiplied, until they almost out
numbered the stars in the firmament. Bonfirei
ivere lit, it is true, but not with bibles. The righti
if conscience and of property were laid in a foun
ilation firmer and deeper than ever. Men am
children have ever since, been kept safe, nnti
Whigs, at the head quarters of " good society'
in Massachusetts, set fire to the Charleston Con
cent.' and until their allies?the Natires?c
Philadelphia, set fire to the temples dedicated t
the Most High ! Property was not divided on th
Agrarian system, until the Whig lordlings of th
United States Bank divided among themselces th
hard-earned possessions of suffering IVidoics an
Orphan*.
The Democracy next offered to the public su
frage a respectable Virginia gentleman name
James MadisoNv The federalists seemed horroi
struck. " Why renlly"said they "Torn Jefferso
is not sucli a bad fellow after all?ho has lmd ai
visers, it is true, Gallatin and Giles and Kandolp
?but wo can manage to bear with him?he i
theoretical, but honest. But Heaven deliver 11
from Jim Matlison, the purchased pimp of Nap(
Icon and Talleyrand?he is French all over?01
country will be a province of France, and N?p(
leon will send over some of his brothers for a vice
roy ! The country will be ruined!"
Such were the lachrymose exclamations eciioe
along the whole Federal lino frcin Maine to th
extreme borders of Louisiana.
James Madison, however, was clected. An
with the help of honest and talented counsellor
in the cabinet, and Commodores Ilut.t. and Mc
Donougii on the sea, and one Andrew Jackso
on the land, he planted the standard of victory tr
utnphant on the battlements of the constitutiot
to the utter shame and discomfiture of the Wei
sters and Otises of New England. The com
try nourished like a green toy-tree, and the bless
i?gs of civilization and peace were every w..crc
Vit'dU= course of time, Andrew-;Jackkm; w as
eelccted as the Democratic candidate for the
Presidency. In his boyhood he had re-i=to _
British ^^Hpcr years"he'had?avenged
C country's wrongs and vindicated her hono, in
fil the violence'of H.KSS sliery, and
'KS valofhad lod^tf " stnr
utef'science
and habits, totally unacquainted with the seen.
?f.ph?gwZnst?alk'in trade then was: Military
I he Whig staiK; in " 8;-ol. Arbuthnot
despot.smi b.x M Cofl5n ilandbl||a!
^1SST?SSS by the gross ! Hu?n ?
D,A?W ' How were the
h^ilTnrthe Whigs fill tilled then ? Let the
S2S*?s.Jkss? .
monopoly of thu eartn treasure of the
Siniiinw'l^ac^aBd'l'l'en^v^ign^dThronglKJiiMhe
fand, ma S" the heart to rejoice with exceeding
E'^K'k. Pol:: was nominated, in'44,
the same false prophets were aasidiionsly at work,
predicting the revenue standard was
Inom extinguish furnaces and forges, blight the
orospecu a^ikc of Artizan and Farmer, and un
loose all the evils of Pandora's box upon society.
Xot one nt all these predictions hascome to jtass.
The country is prosperous beyond all former ex
imnle? Plenty is crowning the work of peace
with abundance, and scatters from
jornucopi? nil the blessings that light up tne
r|oom of life and lend a halo to existence. Com
merce expands her proud sails upon the dashing
.pray, and the sounds of the spindle and ,1,eJW;
lamtner, the oar and tlie steam car are heard in
>very valley. The Stars and Stripes flap their
imnle folds in triumph over land and sea, ac
knowlcdein<T no superior, and scarcely a riva .
O^r soarlng eagle looks down in stately grandeur
from his " quiet elevation," not a plume hasdrop
aed from his pinions, not an arrow has evade
? . . r Ljq talon.". Every where our altars
i^be'n'din" beneath the oblations of adorein^
nillioni, and the very atmosphere we inhale
adened with the rich fragrance of Libert}.
Snrh is the condition of our country, at this
ime and if we may be allowed to'prophecy our
lelve'a sue'1 il wil1 remain> und" 1 ro'idence, so
on* a's Democratic principles bear the Bway.
3cS Lewis Cass will be triumphantly elected, as
vere Jefferson an! Makbos, and Jacksos and
'olk,and the gloomy forebodings of our opponents
will once more fail of fulfilment.
irT* The Whigs say that Gen. Cass has been
n J0?ce nianv Years, and make this an objection
0 him Do they forget that Gen. Taylor has
office every-dT nrimy Fare, and tlist
le yet holds on to his commission as Major General
n AeafnTthe Whig presses are continually harp
??5s string that Gen. Ciss has teen but
ince elected to office by the people. Now we
vould ask these gentlemen in return as to how
nany offices Gen. Taylor has been elected to by
hThe?VVhig9 should learn, with Dogberry, that
'comparisons are odious*"?Aash. Lnion.
Speaking of "Taylor enthusiasm," we find the
following in the Ohio Statesman
? Taylor EirrHtJsiASM.?We occasionally hear
his article Ulked of, but it is always a long dis
tance off. Like the milk sickness in some of the
Western States, it is always located m a different
settlement, many miles at ead, or many miles be
hind. In Pennsylvania, it is said that Ohto is
jverronning with enthusiasm in favor of Gen.Tav
lor - but when the traveller here enquires for it,
it is'locatod in Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, Wiscon
sin Michigan or somewhere else, and always a
lone distance off. In the States named, it is lo
cated in New York. Pennsylvania, or the New
England Stales,or perhaps in Texas or Louisiana,
but we have never yet been able to catch a glimpse
,f the man that found it. He would be as great
1 curiosity as the Mexican Mr: Clay wanted to
day, and Barnum could matce^a fortune by show
ing him aB the greatest of cariosities."
Locusts at VVaskisgtos?Locosts are show
ne themselves in and around Washington, m
n?at abundance. The capitol grounds arejnu
lical with their peculiar songs, and every hour
seems to a3d to their number.
DOINGS AT AVASJUitftTOR.
X5RBE3FOSDESCE OF THE ''SFUtlT OF JEFFERSON.*
WA^BpcTOS, July Sll, 1848.
\11 eyes an a'nxioWly turood totKo *t!eli6era
iona 01 Congress. Thfe report of llie committee
if the' Senate,- rccommendiog tfao establishment
>f tentorial governments over Oregon, Galifor
ii? and New Mexico, with specified restrictions
ind powers, is n^ii) the Senateto iky. The dis
suasion will contihnejnost probably for more than
i week. It will pws finally, however, in that :
jody, l.y a large ijuyofjty- As the committee
abored hard for four days and nights in order to
iflcct a compromise upon this exciting topic, and
soocludeil npon the present bill,and, as the rights
if the South aro not jeopardized by the provisions
therein contained, we fervently hope that it may
meet with the approval of the popular branch of
Congress also, that the public mind may become
allayed, and all local and sectional prejudices be
absorbed in one common desire for the general :
good of the whole country. But as to the vote of
this recommendation of the Senate Committee in
the House of Representatives, we confess it is
somewhat problematical, although members are
of opinion that it will ultimately pass by a mea
gre majority, say from five to ten. This subject
will elicit much talent and some violence in de
bate, and will tend, perhaps, to a continuance of
the session to the middle of August, or Istof Sep
tember. The Ilonse was in a dilemma yester
day, which while it is anomolous, is not the less
reprehensible. In the civil and diplomatic ap
propriation bill, an amendment was ofiered to
amend it by appropriating $50,000 for the im
provement of the Charleston harbor. The object
was extraneous in this bill, and Was resisted by
the friends of the Administration. In committee
it was retained, however, by the casting vote of
the Speaker, and when they ram? out into the
House the whole bill was defeated by a vote of
11 ayes to 100 nays. lint for this objectionable
feature, no opposition would have been made by
the Democrats, nor indeed at all, perhaps, ifithsd
been in a separate bill. There was a strong politi
cal move iff the matter. It is known that a certain
Mr. Ilolmes of llio Charleston district, who indi
rectly assisted in electing Federal Speaker Win
throp, has lately declared in favor of General
Taylor, and who in consequence thereof feels
as if he were standing upon ticklish ground at
home, has invoked the interposition of Federal
influence to carry this measure for the benefit o!
Cliar'eston that he might thereby conciliate his
constituency, and be partially reinstated in the
confidence of the Democracy. Besides, lie with
his new allies, hoped-that by passing it in this par
lir.ular way. that is in the general appropriation
bill, the Presidential veto would boimided, as
tliey supposed the President would not dare veto
a bill, the pas.-age of which was necessary to car
ry on the general afiairs of government; or if he
did, they would raise the cry of the horrible one
inan power, and this lend more countenance to
Cien. Taylor's opinions npon that subject And
farther, tlie Western Whigs would not attempt to
engraftany of their projects upon this bill,because
they knew no favor would have been - given to
their wishes by the House, or the President, but
because Mr. Holmes, and some few other erratic
spirits of S. Carolina had manifested some pre
ference for Tnylor, they must forsooth, to" make
assurance doubly sure," throw out this hail, with
the hope that in any aspect, political capital could
be made out of it. Such arc some of tho tricl.s
of the majority party. If they can make presi
dential speeches, tliey seem to prefer it, rather
than do the" business of the nation. The House !
has been considering the bill to-day, and came to
no final action. It will be decided to-morrow.
The Court of Inquiry has been dissolved. Gen.
Pillow having withdrawn the charges vs. Scott.
Our City is dull, most of tiie fashionable hav
ing gone to the Virginia Springs, Cnpe May and
Saratoga.
We have had fine rains and weather pleasant.
j our?,
U llb.Mkl.
TME COUItSE OF FACTION".
Before the breaking out of hostilities with
Mexico none were tnorc clamorous for war than
certain leaders of the opposition, who have since
vituperated their government and denounced the
very war for which they o ce cried aloud, as " un
righteous, unholy and damnable." Prominent
among those clamorers for war before hostilities
commenced, .stands? the Philadelphia North Ameri
can, the acknowledged organ of the anti-war
Whigs in the Keystone State, and whose authori
ty lo speak in behalf of the modern Whig party,
will hardly, we opine, be called in question. Hear
then what that Journal said on tho 2-lth of April,
181G, in a leading article on the subject of our re
lations with Mexico:
" * * The aspect of our afiuirs with Mexico
is sufficiently grave to demand earnest attention.
Our country is made, by the Mexican government,
the subject of the most dishonoring vituperation ;
a quasi tear is declared against us ; and, in short,
we are suly'ectcd In more of humiliation and wrong
than tee haec endured since tiie Tripoli/an tear.?
Where is the Executive ? All that was charac
terized by the President as demanding national
resentment, has occurred. The insults we have
invited by sending our minister, we have received.
What new dishonor is necessary to arouse our
government to action ?
* * What will onr government do ? The
icrong has reached the uttermost. A ll that Mexico
is capable of doing agninst us, she has done. Her
proclamations arc declarations of trar. She does,
not invade our territory, or meet iw ?p?u me sea,
only because she cannot, and she says so. very
effort to insult, degrade nnd wrong us, she has
exhausted. It will not be denied thai such a policy
demands action of some sort from our government.
It cannot ie amicable, for she has dismissed our
minister, and rejects as an abomination the proffer
even of a pL'a for negotiation."'
" * * If we were "at war with the most pow
erful European government, such prollers would
not have been so received. It is an insult to de
liberate a wrong so profound, that to endure it, is
to invite, from the meanest of the communities of
the earth, indignity and oppression. It will be
admitted that there is no propriety in leaving such
an issue open and negleclcd. The honor ol na
tions like that of individuals, brooks no delay."
" * '* Our duly is plain ; wc should either re
trace our steps, or go on. I'o stand still and per
mit Mexico to treat us and our citizens as robbers
of her territory, a nd therefore as unworthy of recog
nition under the la-os of nx'utns, is a degradation
that cannot be endured. 'If we must have war,
Mexico is our field,' not for conquest?for her
confines have not an acre that we covet, not a
being that we could accept as a fellow-citizen?
but to redeem our country from a boldness and base
ness of vituperation and insult, for which the diplo
macy of the century has no parallel."
" * * War is a great evil; but thorn are
greater evils. The issue between this country
and Mexico has rose bed's point ^vfiere'there is
no room for turning. Oar government should
ict with promptness and decision, and upon a
scale worthy of the republic."
Will it be believed that this very identical jour,
nal has been foremost in dericftincing the war and
stigmatizing the President with the most odious
epithets to-bc found in the English language for
sngagiog in it? Such is the madness of party?
such the course of a factious opposition which
proves the modern anti-war federalists to bemos
justly entitled to the compliment of being the " tear
parly in peace, and the peace party in tear," which
was soappropriately applied to theanti-war Feder
alists of 1813.?Lynchburg Republican.
A Liberal Bequest.?Wo understand that
the late Jacob Hess, who resided near Shepherds
town, and who departed this life on the 6th ult.,
has bequeathed $2,000 for tha improvement of
the propbrty belonging to the Methodist Episco
pal Church in Shepherdstown.?Free Press.
Remarkable Longevity.?" Old Phil," a ser
vant belonging to Mr. James Brent, of Charles
county, died on the 5th inst. at the age of one hun
dred and fifteen years ! The Port Tobacco Times
says:
Op to the day of his death, this faithful old ser
vant enjoyed aJmost uninterrupted good health,
and, it is said, there"Jva? a period- in bis life em
bracing forty years, in-which he experienced not
even the slightest fever. All his faculties he re
tained in a wonderfaldegrec, with thp exception
of that of sight,' which fbr some timeT?o lost, but
partially recovered again about foar years since.
DEMOCRATIC MEETMcr
?o
1 Public Barbccnc and a Wclcou A
to the VIrgiuia Volaatccn.
At fi meeting of the Democracy of Ch^ *
o-.vn.JicM at the Court-House in Charleston. Qui
Saturday, 22d of July, on (notion, Alaj. A. J.t ^
iannus was called to the Chair, and (JEosst'
Stewart and Robert V. Lewis appointed'
:retaris. "f h6 objett of tlie meeting wai n^j
iriefiy explained by Cms. B. Hardixg, tjj .
ind the following preamble and resolution* tlrp
unanimously adopted:
Whereas, It haft bt-rrt frequently snpo
and we have reason to believe it will
most hearty concurrence of the entire Democn^"
sf the county, therefore . al
Resolved, 1st. That the Democratic partt?
the county of Jefferson, conscious of the pnrjhf
their principles* and more (irmly convinced i,
ever of their identity wilh the preservation ot<
Union,and its onward march to gloryand top.
ness, that a Public Democratic Barbacue,
our principles can be fully set forth and their jjSj
tico fully made manifest, be given at some
near Charlestown, on THU11SDA Y the 17iijS;
of August next. "Ai
ResolteJ, 2dly, That oor Democratic and \\prJ
friends of the county and this Congressionalp
trict, be and are hereby cordially invited to
with us upon that occasion.
Resulted, 4dly. That a committee of set
appointed as a committee of General Cor
dence, whose duty it shall be to invite S,
for title occasion and such other special gui
they may deem proper, and do and perform'
other matters that they may deem neeesun
carry out the object of the first resolution. J
committee consists of Col. Braxton Davei
George B. Bcall, H. L Opie, Col. Kobert I
It. Hume Butcher, James Grantham, and
I'\ Washington.
Resolved, 4thly. That a committee of thi
appointed from Charlestown, Smithfield,
herdstown, Harpers-Ferry, Leetown, Ktbl
Hf.lltowa, Kerneysvflfc, Summit Point and
Ilrancli, whose duty it shall be to take np e
tions in money or provisions, and report
success nt stich time as may be required, ti
Chairman or some memberof tha " General
mittcc of Arrangements" as hereafter pi
for.
COMMITTEE OK tOil-ECTIOKS.
Charlestoirn?E. M. Aisquith, Benjamin
and George L. Stewart.
Smithfield?W. J. Burwell, Robert W.
and Vance Bell.
Harpers Ferry?Capt. Win. II. Moore,Tkjf
K. Laley and Thomas Sturdy. .
Shepherds/own?Lewis Lucas, John WifiSp
Cato M. Entler. jST,
Kahl-tmcn?Dr. John Lock, Solomon fi atl
bower, Wm. Drew. ?ejJ(
Summit Point?E. A. Biley, A. tt. MJejor
Nathaniel Seevers. 'uca
Leetmni?James T. Coyle, Ralicgli B.
Thomas Licklider. n>
Kernnjstille?Minor Hurst, Tudor Tot*''
Bayliss Trupsclf.' j**j
Elk Branch?Richard Duflield, Win. 11.
mous, James Burr, jr.
Jlalllqirn?Win. I). North, Copt, .lulinlavi
John Gardner. 5tl
Resolced,, flllilv. That a committee of ttt^'
appointed from Charlestown and its imisn' 8
neighborhood who 'shall be the General Corf1'
tee of Arrangements and who shall have an t' w
supervision of all matters pertaining to tlx ^
posed Dinner, (not otherwise provided for. cn
to whom the several amounts of money, ri?.
ion?, &c. subscribed, shall bo paid over,"wv1'4
reeled, to them or thoir order, by the c.nnc.?0
on subscriptions provided for in the 1th rcsolr 8
Said committee, Thomas Rawlins, T. C. BnJj,
John F. Blessing, Jotrph Brown, James
Jacob Ilnincp, jr.. Jo.seph Starry, Bcbrr!
o,l
jr., John M. English niul William H. Kinj??,,S
Resotcrd, 6thly. That to carry out the oWtf?
the 1st resolution and by the day <lm>ignaMsM!
respeclfjilly.ijrged js a matter of paramntidn?
porta nee, that ?Dc various committees
thou id be dilligent in the discharge of tlifjn
assigned them, and that they go lo workH?53
in iheir respective positions.
.Whereas, The proclamation of pence
forth, and the war between the Onitcd Stats ]
Mexico has been brought to an honorable Rt>
conclusion?the rights of our nation thereto
dicated by the Peace, and the prowess t:
arms, the valor of our troops, the patri?ti?
oar masses proved by the war to be nnextt001
in the history ot the world ;?and wherYR ^
brave Virginia Volunteers lire nowjnjt tPtr"'
from the heart of an enemy's country to t1 le
of their family and friends, it' not cny 'ro
the laurels of victory won on the l; , at
are none the lc?s deserving our he:"y ? CTino
congratulations?thereforo, ' o t
Rcsrjlced, That inasmuch ?* ,'"B rtir,'l'r?nei
gooJ rrason to believe, the " Jefferson lan
[?any," unjfer the command of Capt. Jow,j
Rowas, will have retched the county ?
fore the 17th day of August, the day lixcdrjjj
for the proposed Dinner, and desirous o! min^ ^
ing not only as a party but ns individuals i,,^
appreciation oftheir self-sacrificingpatriotU?.|jg
love of country, that a cordial invitation isl*r (
given, to the Officers and Privates of tlrn
and Berkeley Compan"""><"ol. John F. L_i
Berkeley Corap:ui"">> ?*? <"ol John :'<0 ?
rcftaent of our own county, and i.
Col. Randolph of this Congressional Distny^
Maj. Earlv, Q. M. Poterfield, a<= well jj
all other officers and privatesof the Virginia^,,
ment, who can find it convenient to be
and partnkc of thatokl Virginia hospitality,<.,jei
is now, and has always been heretofore,so"_j^
tendered her patriotic sons. ^d?
Resolved, That the Chairman and Sccrf^ g(]
forward, at such points as they may deco.j ?
la"l!Jur?i
tis, and desire their acceptance of tho ""j.y,
tendered. l,ajl
Resolved, That such other arrange rMflij??
may be necessary, are placed under the ei'n jj
direction of the General Committee of At"
mcnts heretofore appointed.
Resolved, That the proceedings of this rri
be published in the papers of Gharlestowa
the other papers of the District be requW*
copy.
Resolved, That this meeting do nowaJjoagg1
meet on Thursday nTght, 3d of August. A i
A. J. O'HANNON.Oire
Geirge L. Stewart, ) c, . ya I
Robert V. Lewis, { Sec ys. ^ l
? _____ iiei
Arrest or Co-.. Hughes?We learn frrsw<
Washington News, that Col. George \V. Ih?n
of the Maryland and District regiment of "JCS
tcers, was arrested in that city on Friday. A
gave bail in the sum of ten thousand dolin mi
answer at the next Circuit Court, to the chnsid
trespass, vi el armis, and false imprisoniWtiol)
John T. Davis, a soldier lately serving in fcg i
gitnent in Mexico. We hear many coopg.
from the men just returned home, of the Be
of the discipline of Col. Hughes, bot *Miei
they arc justified or not in their dennnci*'J(?Uid
are unable to say. ona
_ ien
TELECr.APII FROM New YoKK TO Kt?
leaks.?-These two cities are now in telega
communication, the wires having been coo* ,A
through from Charleston to New Orleans f
17tb. No dispatch from the latter city,
through ina tingle day, has, however, yetrt*rin
as farvs Baltimore?it taking of courWuy
time to make tlio.line work properly. Tt?>g 1
too, since the 17th,been some accidentsfroaf^j,
ning. i
Gek. CusntKot;-?We learn from the
port Horald that Gen. Cnshing reached
in that town on jVVednesday evening. Af
of 100 guns was' fired in honor of bis ar"1*
afterwards a baisd of music and several I
people repaired to his residence, and c*I
out. After he hitd made the crowd io
house a brief address, many of the citizem** ^
doors, to persorkllv tender him their coof^ 1
lions. . ?
Leaves are light, and useless, and idlf-1 _
vering and chnaigeable; they ev^n
God has made tljem part of the oak. In*'
he has given u| a lessoft hot to deny 1*1
heartedness witjbnn, because we see tht ?
somencss without.