LATER FROM EUROPE. i
Tho steamship clm^ica arrived at,* Halifax on
Thursday morning with accounts from Liverpool to '
tho 21st ult., the day «he loft. She brought thein
tellijjenco that tho V'renth Government has come to !
the mi|K)rtant resolution of an armed intervention to '
reinstate tho Pope. A force adequate to the emcr- j
gency has already started for Uivita Vecchia.
The warlike contests between the States of the \
Continent continues with unabated fbry, and with i
most disastrous rnmlts u, all. parties engaged in 1
thorn.
'I be 1 Janes arc enforcing a strict blockade of all
the German ports. It is even stated that emigrant
vessels will not be allowed hereafter to pass unmo
lested.
^ A telegraphic despatch has licon received at
Frankfort, staling that tho Prussian Ministry Jiad
sent in their resignations.
The Suldimo Porte has signified a non-compli
ance. to accept a part of the Egyptian tied.
Prince Cavigno has ordered a levy en masse of
all the Inhabitants of Lombardy and of tho Ve
netian provinces, of from 18 to 40 years of age.—
Those who do not appear w ithin five days will be
considered “ refractories.”
'Plic Nautical Magazine says that Germany is
occupied with a gigantic project of a junction of the
Baltic with tho North Sea. The medium proposed
is a canal without locks.
Rah .roads in Ohio.—The Baltimore American
justly remarks that Ohio is making rapid strides in
her railroail enterprises. Tho Cincinnati! Enquirer
speaks as follows:—The Cleaveland, Columbus,
and Cincinnati! Railroads have contracted for 7000
tons of the heavy T rail, sufficient to iron one half
of the entire road. Tho iron will first be laid down
from Cleaveland south, towards Columbus. Since
this purchase,jiho price of rails has advanced $2 to
’ $3 per ton.” *
I iio American adds that tho Railroad Conven
tion to bo lielJ in Steubenville on the 20th inst., is
said to be called by ihe friends of tlio “Great Cen
tral Railroad, leading (roin Philadelphia through
Pittsburg, Sit ubcnville, and Columbus, to Cincin
natti and St. Louis,” in accordance with the wishes
“expressed through the newspapers of Cincinnati
mill Pittsburg;” and tho jsiints especially named as
those from which delegates are expected to ho sent,
aro I loroncc, Uurgettslown, Nobletown and Pitts
burgh. Pa. j'Cadiz, Coshocton, Zanesville, Mt. Ver
non, Nowaik, Columbus and Cincinnati, Ohio; St.
Louis, Mo.; and “all intermediate points which
may wish to be represented.
What are wr> doing in Virginia? Are the friends
of tho various improvements passed last winter at
work and g"ing ahead ’ It will be the greatest
scandal that ever happened to Virginia, if the peo
ple inlrri stod in those measures,now that the State
has liberally proffered her aid, should neglect to as
Eist themselves. Should such ho the case, they
will show that they do not dcservo the aid of the
.State, and the State ought never again to extend
thorn its help.— Rich. Republican.
Interesting from California—More Gold
Discovered.—Advices received at New York con
tain the following additional particulars of late intel
igenco from the gold regions.
Tho Toryado arrived at Mazatlan on the loth
from San Francisco, with advices to tho 3d of
JM rdi. '1 lie steamship Oregon, with her three
hundred passengers, arrived at Mazatlan on that
oaie—she merely touched there, and proceeded on
her voyage to San Francisco on the same day.
, % private letters received in Mexico, it was
learned, that during the week ending 10th March,
a schooner arrived at Mazatlan, from San Francis
co, with fifteen thousand ounces ($240,000) of»-old
on board.from the. Pincers. This gold had been
purchased at San Francisco, ct from $11 to $15 per
ounce. *
On the 'bib of March, a brig and a schooner left
M izt..ui for San • rancisco—they each carried sev
enty passengers. '1 ho news which arrived every
day was s<> good and so positive, that every one in
Mazatian was wild to go to the gold rognns. News
also had been received, that another Placer laid been
discovered in I n*ee>- California, which bid fair to
rival in richness those on the Sacramento river.
, American Consuls Abroad.—The New Y'ork
i ribtine contains a statement of tho official income
of cur Consuls abroad, by’ which it appears that no
Consolate is at present worth $10,000. The larg
es: amount received is by the Consul at Liverpool,
w ho in 18..’> received $0,9G3 ()•;>. The Consulates
at the Rio do Janrrio and at London arealso worth
$9,000. 1 he next beet arc the Consulates at Ha
vana and Glasgow, both ot which yield annually
upwards of $ > t)O0. St. Thomas ami the Sandwich
Islands each yield $1000; six other posts yield $2,
000, per annum ; eighteen aro worth $1000; and
the remaining ninety Consulates range from $900
to $ 1 per annum, much the largest proportion of
them being worth less than $500. The Consul at
Alexandria, in Egypt, receives a salary of $3000.
Ihree Consuls on ilio Coast of Bavhary each receive
b salary of $2000, and five in China receive a sal
ary $1000 a year each. One at Beyront receivcsa
salary ol $ >00. Several of tho minor Consuls have
made no return of fees.
IMPORTANT IlCMOIt FROM Mf.XIGO.-Tin: N*01V
Orleans Delta of tho 27 ih ult., publishes' the sub
joined letter, dated
Matamoros, April 20, 1849.
"Paredes is kicking up the devil at present, The
pronnneiudes (insurgents) took San Luis Potosi on
the 17th inst., am! have march on (iuerctaro. The
troops sent from here to pul down the revolt have
pronounced in favor of Paredes, and joined the rev
olutionists as soon as they crossed the mountains.
Our previous advices from Mexico (says the Del
ta) represented that a formidable insurrection had
broken out in the vicinity ofSan Luis, and that a large
body of troops had been sent on by the Government
to put down the insurgents. If tho above intelli
gence be corn et, we may expect tho unfortunate re
public of Mexico soon to be plunged into tho hor
rors of anarchy, if not a civil war.
IM.migration from Europe to tiif. Usitib
States.— From present indications we may nulici
pato a huger emigration from Europe this year than
in any previous year. Wc noticed yesterday the
arrival of upwards of 22,000 passengers iri New
York during the month of April. Wc see it stated
in the Now York papers that 417'i arrived in that
city on Tuesday last, and that upwards of 37,000
were reported at the Mayor’s O/lice on tho same
day, who are yet to arrive. On these the commuta
tion money was paid, which, at $1 .70 per b«nd a
muunlcd to the sum of $.72,000. Boston is also re
ceiving her share of emigrant passengers. Within
the past few days fourteen vessels have arrived at
that port with upwards of 2-700 emigrants.
Tei.f,op.apiiic He pouts.—The Telegraphic de
spatches t«> the Northern papers blunder sufiiricnt
!y in their reports of the foreign news ; hut nothing
can equal the manner in which the Virginia elec
tions are passed along the wires. Witness the fol
lowing :
"At last accounts J. M. Potts was running well;
G. C. Lee’s vote is so far quite small; James Sid
den’s chances thus far are best in Morion, I<eed3,
Pcndlet in, and London districts.”
And this is but a sample. We have seen some
worse ih .a this.—Jilcxandria (Jnzetlc.
I*Afr.URE..— I) shop Doane. of New Jersey,(says
the New V'ork Tribune) for $2-70.000, and is said to
Ik- able to pay only a trifling portion of his vast lia
bilities. Most oft his money is said to have bpen spent
in building churches and chap* Is. The fortune of
Mrs. Doane formerly Mrs. Petkin of Boston is not
involved in this Clash. Ucr income is said to be
$12,000 per annum.
Masmch* RTfs K iii.roatis.—Seventeen mil
lions of pa.Ascng* rs have been carried over the Mas
ES'huseiis railroad* wi*hio the past three year?.—
Fifty s:x kill* d, and six’y five injured.
=s SPECTATOR. 7“
—•owATirsj®®ji8»—
WEDNESDAY, MAY 9, 1849.
fcj- Among tho objections to a subscription by the
County of the S‘20,(XXT for the Railroad, a recent
one is tho ‘following—That the Sheriffs’ comm is- i
sions for collecting will be too great for tho addi- {
tional trouble. One objection after another has van
ished before the plain statements of facts as present
ed to tho intelligent landholdets of Augusta. We
never believed that more than this was necessary '
for such a population as ours. Every day’s expe
rience strengthens tho abiding confidence \ve fix 1 6f
success before the peoplo on the 2Gth of this month.
Tho otycction we notice to day has been communi
cated by an intelligent'citizen of the county, and
we 6up|M)se there must be sotho misapprehension in
the premises. The commission on $‘20,000 at 3
\ per cent, would Ire $1000 and at 21 per cent, only
$500, instead of $2500, au the objection contem
plates. Pay, and pay well, we Irelicvo to be the
true doctrine in political economy, if work is ex
pected to be done well. Wo would liko to eno Ju
rors and Justices of the peace paid, and all who ren
der public service, including Sheriffs. Wo rejoico
to see labor meet its reward, and it la for this pur
pose we feel constrained te advocate the noble im
provein^t presented to our citizens by the contem
plated railroad. IIow much labor is lost, absolute
ly lost, by distant and cosily transportation? IIow
much is withheld for like causes ? II’ we digress
and ramble, it is for tho purpose of meditating up
on the best interests of our good old county.
THE ELECTIONS.
We cannot conceal the disappointment and mor
tification we feel at the result of the lato elections
in this Slate. It is to ho attributed, we presume
mainly to the apathy and divisions which existed
among tho Whigs. Our opponents aro united and
vigilant, and at the word of command issued from
Head Quarters by the Richmond Enquirer, fall into
line and act as one man. The Whigs, on tho con
trary, spend tho canvass in quarreling among them
selves, or in listless indifference, and wake up when
it is too lato to lament their losses.
I'iio following members of Congress are elected,
viz.-t-I)emocarts—Thos. H. Payly, John S. Mill
son, James A. SeJdon, It. K. Meade, Alex. It.
Hotladay, James M’Dowell, Thomas S. Iiocock,
Thomas II Averelt, Richard Parker, Henry A.
Edmondson, Paulus Powell, Alex. Newman, Fay
ette McMullen, and J. M. 11. Beale—14 : Whig—
J. Morton. Mr. Flournoy is defeated by Gor 8 votes
only, and will, it is said, contest the election with
L)r. Averett—the majority against Mr. (ioggin is
about 100 votes.
In the Legislature wo have, so far as heard from,
gained 1 Senator and 9 Delegates, and lost 4.
THE PROCESSION.
On Tuesday last, in accordance with previous
announcement, the Odd Fellows, Sons of Temper
ance, and tho Oflicers of the 32J, 93d and lGOtli
Regiments, (being the annual training of the Offi
cers) united iu one of the largest and imposing pro
cessions ever witnessed in our town. The occa
sion drew together an immense concourse of the
citizens of the county—and it being the first day of
tho Spring Term of tho Federal Court, a large
number of strangers were'also Congregated here.—
Beautiful and appropriate addressees were deliver
ed upon the occasion. One by I,. Waddell, Esq.,
on behalf of the Odd Fellows, will he found in our
paper of to-day and speaks for itself, better than we
can speak for it; the other address on behalf of the
Sons of Temperance, by the Rev. Mr. Riley ; and
of it we need only say that it fully sustained the
reputation of that gentleman, as an acute reasoher
and line orator. There was ho confusion, notwith
standing thero w&8 considerable excitement and en
thusiasm. At the conclusion of tho ceremonies our
people retired quietly to their homes, delighted
with the scenes of the day—a beautiful commen
tary Upon the love cfoidcr for which our town and
county are justly celebrated. Tho number of Odd
Fellows in procession was near J(J(), of the “.Suns”
about 15(2—the Officers we did not estimate.— Vin
ilicnlor.
The Virginia Insitution.—At a recent meet
ing of the President and Directors of tlio Literary
Fund, the following gentlemen wero appointed
Visiters of the Deaf and Dumb and Blind Institu
tion located at this place, for the year ending April
I 6th, 1850, viz: Alex. H. II. Stuart, of Staunton.
VVrr.LiAM O. Goode, of Mecklenburg; Nicholas
C. Kinney, of Staunton; James Points, of Staun
ton ; Dr. F. T. StrIbmng, of Staunton ; Dr. Geo.
T. Yeuby, of Northampton ; and Thomas J. Ran
doi,imi, of Albemarle.
Tho Annual Meeting of the Board of Visiters
will commence on Tuesday, the 22nd inst., and the
examination of the pupils on the following Thurs
day.
Popular Education.-—A National Convention
of the friends of Common Schools is to assemble in
Philadelphia on the 2:.<’rid day of August next, for
mutual consultation and deliberation as to the best
means fur advancing the cause of Popular Educa
tion in the F oiled States. The call for the Con
vention is signed by many distinguished divines,
leacb&rs, editors and others.
The cortinittre of Arratigemehlslime the friends
l of the scheme ill the several States, to assemble in i
' Stale Convention, on or before the 4th day of July,
for the purpose of appointing delegate?.
"Tris Republic.”—A new Whig paper with
this title is to he commenced in a few weeks, in the j
: city of Washington by Gtnp.oN &. Co. The edi
torial management of the paper is to be committed :
to Alexander C. Buli.ett and John (4. Sar- !
gent, whose names famish a sufficient guarantee '
for its ability and general character. It will be
1 published daily, tri-weekly, and weekly at ten, six
1 and two dollars respectively.
Cf/* On the first page of this paper, rnay be found 1
the first part of a communication entitled “A Mar-'
riagein Western Virginia,” which was sent to U3 for !
publication some months ago, by the author, a wen- I
i llernnn of high respectability. It is interesting as
I being a true account of one of the mostsingular and i
impudent, and the same time successful, attempts |
at swindling that has ova: corns lo out knowledge. ■
FEDERAL COURT—CASE OF J. D. FENTON.
1 he 1* ederal Court for the Western District of
Virginia commenced its session in this place on
Thursday the ord inst.. Judge John \V. Bkocken
bRouoii, presiding. Tho only case of special in
terest beforo tlm Court, was that of John D. Fen
ton, who stood charged on thirteen indictments,
with stealing money from the Post Oflice in Win
chester, on four of which he had been arraigned
and plead "not guilty,” at the last lerfrt.
On the first day of the Court the Prisoner, through
tile counsel‘F. W:r.f.:A>is, Ksq., 'ssked leave to
withdraw the pleas—ho made a full confession of
his guilt, declared ttfctV.o otto hot himself was im
plicated in the affair, ami submilted to ihejudgment
of tho Court. The money, he said, was in his pos
aossiuPT with a list of tho owners, to Whom it would
bo returned.
\\ it nesses were examined to prove the previous
good character of the unhappy young man, and the
prosecuting Attorney entered a nolle prosequi to all
the indictments except the fust on which the con
fession was made. The Judge took till the next
•morning to consider tho case, at which time he sen
tenced the prisoner to four years’ confinement in the
United States Penitentiary, and delivered the fol
lowing appropriate and touching Address.
JOHN I). FENTON !
\ ou have been arraigned at the bar of
this Court tor violating, in numerous instances,
the laws ot your country ; and so overwhelming
was the proof ot your guilt that your eminent
counsel have adopted the very unusual course of
entering a plea o! guilty! to the indictments ex
hibited against you. S ou stand convicted, by
your own confession, of very heinous offences,
in the eye, both of moral and municipal law,
and the paiulul duty is devolved upon mo of
determining tho extent of the punishment,
whieh. under all the circumstances ol your case,
should be meteu out to you.
< .'onstituted as society is, it may be affirmed as
an universal truth, that the consequences of crime
are never limited to its perpetrator. In theory,
indeed, the vengeance of the law is visited only
upon aim who lias dared to violate it, yet it is a
mournful truth that there breathes not a human
being who is so utterly insulated from the pri
vate relations of life as that the just punishment
ol offended law can be'iuflictcd, without wring
ing tviih anguish the heart of soinc dealing wife,
1 or husband, or father, or mother, er brother, or
i sister, or child. Alas! how pain Hilly is this sad
1 truth realized on the present occasion ! He from
I whose loins you sprung"and who watched over
; the lair promise ot your infancy rnd early youth
with paternal fondness, did net indeed live to
witness and to share the degradation of his child.
A merciful Providence has provided for him in
the grave, secure refuge from theifiortal agony of
this fatal hour! But the mother who bore you.
the excellent woman whose breasts nourished
your iufanry &. who endeavored with sedulous
care, to train you up in the way that you should
go, she is here to drink to the dregs tho bitter
cup which your infatuation and your crimes have
commended to her reluctant lips ! No earthly
hand ran pluck out the rooted borrow which af
1 lic*t» that mother’s "heart—-no pen can paint, no
tongue can adequately tell the intensity of that
anguish which has almost rent that hetfvt in
twain ! At such an "hour as this, when the
child of her affection stands before her, a con
victed felon at the bar of justice, the man of
sensibility cannot lmt feel how utterly impotent
is even the voice of the sympathising friends who
surround her to assuage the poignancy of her
grief. What heart does not unite iu the fervent
prayer, that she may tied in the consolation ol a
holy religion a balm for her wounded spirit ?
The case exhibited on your trial, John 1). Fen
ton. is a most strange and anomalous one. llad
the benefits of sound moral and intellectual cul
ture been withheld from you, had you^rown up
a neglected boy with no anxious and judicious
parents to instil into your infant mind the prin
ciples of piety and virtue—had your youth been
marked by indulgence in dissipation and vice,
vve could well account for the commission of the
crimes which are now about to consign you to
a felon’s fate. But none of these usual precursors
of crime heralded your fall. Born of most rep
utable parents, who carefully trained you to
the practice of virtue, you early formed for your
self a character which seemed to be the natural
result of your birth and education. Your punctu
al performance of every duty," your remarkable
exemption from every vicious habit, your scru
pulous fidelity to every trust confided to you,
was the frequent topic of remark among those
who Jiad the best opportunity of knowing you.—
^ ou had not the poop plea ot necessity to tempt
you to indulge in dishonest practices, for your
rare qualifications for usefulness would always
have ensured you a competency at least, if not
ultimate wealth. You could not have needed
money, indeed, for it is in proof that of all the
large sums you abstracted from the mails, the
fruits ol your systematic, depredations, through
three entire months, every dollar was found in
your possession, carefully hoarded at the lime of
your arrest. How then are .we to account for
the strange infatuation whieh hurried you into
the commission of the series of crimes for whieh
you are about to suffer ? Avarice has been call
ed the vice of age, but the story of your .melan
choly fall leaves us no room to doubt that the
blight of this most despicable vice may some
times fall upon the youthful heart, wither its
best affections, and fearfully pervert the whole
moral nature of him who become s its slave when
the dawn of manhood has scarcely been attained.
We have memorable proof here that this base
passion is the most exacting of all task masters
and rcmorslessly tffhisigns its victim to ignominy
and chains.
“ ’Tis true, ’tis pity,
And pity ’tis, ’tis true.”
A terrible retribution has overtaken you, but
the trusting heart of your devoted friends will
yet extrac t the precious solace of hope from the
profound depths of your present despair, 't hey
will delight to cherish the recollection of the
bright virtues that adorned your past life up to
the very hour that you yielded to the; fatal temp
tation which beset you. They will never sur
render the conviction that you could not have
become, as it were, in an instant, incorrigibly
vicious, and they will still indulge the cheering
hope that the dreadful penalty you have just
ly incurred will exert a salutary influence on j
your heart and character. The Penitentiary, in
deed, is a wretched school of reform, and the ob
servation of every man must have taught him
that the heart of the unhappy convict is much
more likely to grow callous under the deaden
ing influence of its discipline and associations
than to experience reformation. Still instances
of thorough reformation, through the instrumen
tality of this fearful ordeal, have occurred: and.
if you are wise, you may leave your prison, chast
ened by affliction, a better man than you enter
ed ft. God grant that yot may yet live to be a
stay and comfort to lliat widowed mother and
devoted sister whose hearts are now filled with
woe unutterable!
The sad duty only remain* lo pronounce the
merciful sentenceo[ the law, which i*—that von
be taken hence to the Penitentiary in the Dis
trict of Columbia, ihcre to be confined at hard
labor for the period of fottr yi-Ars from the date
of this sentence, and pay a fine (f one dellar to j
the United Slates.
Something of a Dilemma.—The Government !
of Canada ran neither execute nor repeal the ob |
noxious indemnity law, which has produced such a
riotous manifestation hy the Loyalists. To attempt
to execute it will he to keep alive the resentment ,
I of the hostile party, and not to do so will justly of j
fend tho French or Ministerial party.— Vhil. Isd. |
Crr FLOUR* in Richmond, $1 Gd.
CORRESPONDENCE.
STAUNTON, MAY 1, 1819.
Dear Sir,—.
Wo h<|ve bqpi appointed a Committee
on the part ofStaunton Lodge, No. 45,1.0.0. K.,
to request for publication, a copy of your able
and eloquent address, tlda day ilelivered.
In the discharge ol this pleasant duty, it is
gratifying to us to announce to you our high
‘appreciation W"its excellencies, and the senti
ments ii contained ; and we cannot loo earnestly
add, our individual wishes to those of the Lodge,
that you will not withhold from publication an
Address, which reflects so much credit upon our
Ordreand yourself. In F. L. & T.,
Yours,
JOHN B. WATTS,
3NO. LEWIS' PEYTON,
N . K. TROUT,
F. J. ALFRED.
To L. Wwueu, Esq.
STAUNTON, MAY 2, 1849.
Gentlemen,—
It is gratifying to find from your note of
yesterday, received by me. tnis morning, that
my address to the I. O. O. F. has given satisfac
tion to tin? Lodge of which I am a member, and
to you, gentlemen, as the organ of the Lodge.—
Your appreciation expressed in, terms kind and
flattering, compels me to say, that if after hav
ing examined the Address from the manuscript,
now sent, you shall consider it calculated to ad
vance the Interest of the Order it is at your dis
posal. Yours in F. L. & T.,
L. WADDELL.
John P. Watts, Jilo. L Peyton, N. K. Trout,
F. J. Allred, Esqa.—Committee.
ADDRESS.
Fellow-Citizens awl Brethren of the Independent
Order of Odd. Fellows :
On this first occasion of a public demonstra
tion by our Order, in this section of the country,
It is matter of regret, that one better lilted to
represent it1* interests and unfold its principles,
had not been aligned to such service. It is too
late, however, to correct an error of this sort;
and while the duty is approached with diffidence
in our own powers oi advocacy or explication, it
is with full confidence in the cause we shall en
deavor to sustain.
In addressing the two classes which compose
this audience—those who do not, and those who
do belong to our Fraternity, it is respectful to
the one, and duo to the other, that some of the
prejudices and objections commonly existing a
gainst associations of this kind, should be briefly
reviewed.
We do this from a regard to public opinion,
which under the operation of our free institu
tions. based, as they are, upon the grand postu
late, that all power is with the jieople, is potent
in its awards upon all questions coming within
It's proper jurisdiction. We are led to consider
those prejudice*, also, from a due regard to the
Order itself; lest unfounded and unanswered ob
jections might obstruct it's progress of usefulness
and benevolence. After we shall have disposed
of those hindrances to a just appreciation of our
Institution, we Shall proceed lodeVelope its prin
ciples, anu submit their Soundness to the test of
practical results; in which, if we shall succeed
according to rhe measure of our own convictions,
fhat portion of this assembly, which does not be
long to us, will go away better satisfied with
Odd Fellowship than when they came.
The first objection \ve notice i°, that fhris
tianity claiming a Divine‘origin—reflecting the
wisdom of Heaven, and breathing its benevo
lence, embodies aJl the good which man req' iires
for his present and future well-being—and that
to put forth other systems ofhuman device, for
amelioration and reformation, is to pluck the
jewels from the crown of our holy religion. T!ie
force of the objection depends upon what that
other system is. If it proposes new articles of
religious belief, or a new inoral code, the objec
tion is a valid one; but, certainly, it finds no ap
plication in onr Order, ah no such claim is set up.
Far be it from us to tread upon hallowed and for
bidden ground, or infringe upon a jurisdiction
whose processes reach the heart, and whose
mandates lay hold upon the conscience in its
most hidden retreats. Ours is not a religious in- ‘
stitution, and, therefore, not to be tried by reli
gious tests. It has nothing to do w ith the pe
culiarities of Christianity—offers no substitute
for the Church or for civil government—and in
terferes with no obligations to the one or the
other. It does, however, inculcate and enforce
upon its members all the great principles of
morality—piiuciples as old as the Bible and of
the Bible—which the Church approves, and
which no human government can contravene,
without breaking down the very pillars upon
which it rests. All this, however, subserves Im
portant ends of civil government and religion
also, and is, therefore, ancillary to both. But
why waste time in refuting such an objection.
Religion has nothing to fear from our Order. In
the majesty of her own sublime origin and de
signs she need fear no enemy. The ruin of
crushed worlds would only drive her back to her
home in Heaven, with the trophies won on earth;
proving by her departure that her mission hail
ended, and ended only in the winding tip of all
things. Far be it from Odd Fellowship to rival
Christianity, or moralize the world by a stcreo
type process of sayings and doing?. Yet we man
lie permitted to enter the great field of Charity,and
aid, at least, in a work, which neither the Church
nor the State have effected, commensurate to the
pressing wants of afflicted and suffering human
ity. But more of this hereafter. Seek not to
create antagonism between the Christian system
and this Order. Drive us not from an admira
tion of the Law or the Gospel; and when in com
pany with any, we visit Sinai for the one jnir
jx»se. or Zion lor the other—w hile they, through
privilege, aspire to tile summit, we linger at the
base and there pitch our humble tents—think
not that an enemy lurks within. Why then
throw the veil of secrecy around your Order ! A
question presenting another objection and ano
ther ground of prejudice. On this point we are
happy to say, that the society of (kid Fellows
lay no stress upon a Magnum tgnotum, or grand
secret, w hich the uninformed have considered
the rnagio power of this and other associations.
We lay claim to no sovereign panacea for the
whole round of human ills—no philosophers
stone converting the baser elements of human
character into standard gold. We seek to excite
no vain speculations, and feel 'assured lhat we
cannot awaken suspicion. It is true, our pro
cecdingsare private, and in this, there is the
most obvious propriety, harmonizing with the
best features of the Institution. Associated to
gether for humane and beneficent purposes, j>ri
inarily affecting our own member#, we escape a
thou&md embarrassments, by excluding those
from our deliberations not directly interested
therein. The heart, too, is kept freer in the
throbbings of its own benevolence, and more o
pen to a just conception of obligations, volunta
rily assumed, when the world, with its criti
cisms and intermeddling, or ifs promptings to
pride, ostentation, and vain-glory. are shut out
from our contemplation.
Charity, also, under the Operation of such a
system, can be dispensed, without subjecting to
the broad gAxe of the public eye, some unfortu
nate or afflicted Victim of wrong or disease—and
it can be enjoyed without wounding some of the
nicest ^ensibilitie'i of the human heart. Resides,
we look upon our Lodge in the light of a family
association. Here we communicate freely w itli
i one another—counsel, admonish and sympathise,
| anlii because we know that w hatever transpires
in tniscircle, is con fined within itsown circumfer
ence. Takeaway the covenanted privacy, and
much of the confidence departs witli it.
From w hat has just l>een said, it might readily
i be inferred that a like policy would be observed
j in regard to the means and modes of recpgni
: tion, adopted bv this Order, including, also, the
| signals by w hich a brother can be apprized or ap
Srize another of special wants, difficulties and
angers. To these, however, no exception has
been taken, nor cun be, as the confidential com
munication of friend with friend, is a privilege,
too sacred to be yielded or coniprotuiUed : and
for the purpose of its enjoyment, none have a
right to complain, whether we withdraw from
their presence or commune by signs, which they
do not understand or perceive. But still
it is urged, that secret associations have beyn
the hot-beds of-plots and revolutions, and we are
pointixl to the Illuminati of (Jerniuny and France,
and to the secret clubs of Paris and Ireland.—
Without stopping to show, that Revolutions usu
ally follow oppression, and plots art; consequent
,oil both, and that these may In; looked for, until
human nature has asserted the lights to which it
is entitled by the God of nature —hr to show, that
in this country the great achievement has been
made, and the inducements to plots, therefore, 1
do not exist—and that here, far more is to be ap
prehended from sudden outbreaks of popular ex
citement, than from private and deliberative as
sociations—it is only necessary to say. that the
chief subjects of human strife, political and sec
tarian deferences, are totally excluded from our
'cognizance: ail'd r.oLodge in tho lb S. is ever
opened for business without fhe caution of the
presiding officer, that such topics cannot be ad
mitted under penalty ; and, permit us to say, just
here, that the highest known to the Order, is ex
pulsion from the society.
Recurring to ihe plan suggested in our open
ing remarks, wo proceed to a more. important
part of the present duty—the prhieipn’s of this
Order. Some of these have already been referred
U>, in tho previous discussion, w it'll some of the
peculiarities which mark the organization. We
uo not intend, however, to satisfy ourselves, nor
attempt to satisfy others, with a mere reference
to the Odd Fellows platform. Our purpose is to
exhibit and explain, leaving the recommenda
tion to its own merits.
As the foundation of all moral obligation rests
upon a belief in a Supreme Being, who made,
sustains, and governs all things—who has an un
controlled right to give laws to his creatures,
and subject them to ils responsibilities and sanc
tions, we make this the basis of the platfonn it
self, and the lirst great moral tert of qualifier
tion for admission into the Order. The Bible,
therefore, holds an honored position in every
Lodge room, and its sacred lessons become the
best illustrations of the Odd Fellow’s duly, as it j
is the source of his principles. If there be a '
magic force in the system, it is found in fhe row- '
.fVc Arc secured by a common acknowledgment !
of the authority of that Book. '1 his secured, the ]
pledges and covenants solemnly entered into,
have received the highest guarantee for their i
fulfilment, w hich man can give to man. Thus i
we become brethren, associated for a com- I
moil and agreed purpose, not interfering with
any religious, civil, social, or domestic duty.—
And now, under the guidance of Friendship,
Love and Truth, theOdd Fellow’s abiding motto
and memorial, he goes forth to consult his broth
er’s welfare—to guard his reputation as he truly
may, and administer to the wants of such as
need assistance. This society, then, is protec
tive in all its purposes—aggressive in none—
claiming no descent from German llluminatists,
or revolutionary clubs of any country. It is one
of Friendship, kind offices, mutual relief, and
charity, without regard to party distinctions in
polities or religion, or to membership in other
associations. Our banner floats alolt over the
prejudices and animosities of Church or State,
w hile the standard which supports it, is planted
upon a common ground of harmony and good
w ill, 'file Sphere of our charities is necessarily
fimited by the resources of fhe Order; bat not’re
stricted to its actual members. While relieving
tin- pressing wants of these when unfortunate or
distressed—attending upon their sick beds with i
watchful e^re-—and slioukl death close the scene,
providing tfie decencies ofChristian burial—be
sides this, the widows and the children are ap
proached with words of cheering and assurances
of help. And this bright feature is the very sun
of our system, shedding its mildest rays upon
tho habitations of sorrow—dispersing the dark
clouds of adversity, and betuiung hope and joy
upon the widowed heart and downcast orphan.
For carrying out these purposes of chanty, the
proceeds from initiation and progression in the
Order, together with weekly or monthly contri
butions, after an economical allowance for ne
cessary expenses, tire sacredly set apart. Or
ganized under a written constitution, w ith the i
means and will for doing good, we enter upon a
field of benevolence, dark, indeed, by the mise
ries ol man, but growing brighter and more
cheerful as we advance, by means of the lamp,
and alleviations of charity.
This Institution, although claiming antiquity
in another country, is but of yesterday in our
own ; the year 1819 giving date to the first or
ganization, which took place in the City of Bal
timore. Good and wise and practical men lav
ing hold upon it as a means of amelioration In
this mo«t wonderful age—;an age marked by gi
gantic efforts of tlveChurch to christianize the
world-by fearful revolutions in States and
Kingdoms—by an inordinate energy in the intel
lectual and physical elTorts of man—marked by
astonishing discoveries in science and the arts—
and marked yet further by the progress of vice,
crime and wretchedness :—Good men, we re
peat, view ing such an age as propitious for in
vesting capital in the stocks of benevolence and
mercy, have brought this Institution to its pres
ent distinguished position among the great char
ities of the day. Although recent in date, it is
strong in its youth, and confident in its ability
lor good
The following statistics, as furnished by a Re
port made to the Grand Lodge of the U. States,
at its session in 18-18, will illustrate what we
mean by the position, influence and usefulness
ol the Institution iu this country :
‘•Number of Lodges, 1307 ; Initiated during
the year, 25,132; Suspensions, 3752 ; Expulsions.
751; I'nst Grands. 10,0-16 Past Grand Masters,
507 : Revenue of Subordinate Lodges, $710,627
59; Contributing members. 102.098 ; Number of
Brothers relieved. 13.334 ; Number of Widow ed
Families relieved, 1523; Number ol Brothers
buried, 831 ; Amount paid for Ihe relief of Wid
owed Families, $21,106 64; Amount paid for
relief of Brothers, $171,050 69 : Amount paid
for Education of Orphans, $7,580 95; Paid for
bnriaig, $34,903 06; Total amount paid, 234,
650 34.
By this it appears that the revenue for tho year
ending July 1848, amounts to $740,627 59, and
that the expenditures have been $234,650 3 I.—
But this estimate falls far below the truth.. 'I he
revenue rises to nearly a million of dollars, and
the expenditures must rise considerably above
$300,000. This would have appeared, had the
! Grand Lodges of New York, Iow a, Illinois and
Arkansas made their returns.”
In our own State there arc about 73 Lodges,
with some 5,000 members.
Here are the practical results to which we just !
now referred. Examine the history of charities, |
i and tell us where you find better subjects for |
human sympathy than the heads of these yxpen- j
dilures exhibit—where a more liberal disburse
ment, and where a greater balance on hand for
yet larger benefit*. It is a wife rule to judge tho
tree by its fruit, it is safer still, when such rule
! has the sanction of Divine authority.
There is philosophy in such an Institution.—
| Civil governments, operating by means of gene
ral law s, cannot adapt itself to the multifarious
| forint of human necessity •" and, if it could, in
j the matter of charity, the burthens of taxation
| v.ohld become so great as to revolt the feelings
j of a free people, always jealous ol exaction, and
' ijo considerate statesman would sustain tho ex
1 periment. In addition to lliis tin; frauds of dis
tribution-the hypocritical pretences in appli
cants for benefit.*— with the want of rigid sujmt
vision and accountability, so common hi matters
: of State policy, would lead to exhausted resour
ces and yet increasing Wretchedness. Besides,
a general system ol governmental charity has
not received the sanction of the wisest states
men or philanthropists, while the mcasuro and
iihkIo of lelief are still debatable questions. And
then as to the Church—it is poor—its field is
the world—and, in fulfilling the great com
mand to preach the C>os(H‘l to every erm
ine, its means are directed to the spiritual, rath
er titan the temporal wants, of a fallen race. And
yet the solemn question may be asked : Has the
ChurOh dttie its duty to its |kh>t members t Tho
answer is not for us. Wo argue the philosophy
ol our Institution, because, just at the extremity
to which these views have carried us, it Btens
forward with a portion of the needful relief. YVe
argue it further, from its powers of expansion_
numbers not w eakening Us organization, but in
creasing its means oi guod. YVe argue it from
the condition of things incident to a rapidly in
creasing P*ipuhijion, and advancing civilization,
in savago life, tho wants of man are few and
simple. His forest home affords him food, rai
n?.'Vut\?.1,J *l "rav,v Drive on the chariot w heels
ot civilization, and with all its rich blessings,
tmrre comes a complicated array of ills. The di
veraityol occupations-—the collision of interest_
the difficult y ol living—the increase and intensi
ty of diseases—the refinement in crime with tho
new stimuli to its perpetration—the deception,
injustice, and fraud, requiring a constant look
out and increasing guard—these, with a hundred
morc? cry out for. some friendly union-band,
which, following the track of tne gieat institu
tions of Government and Religion, should bring
up the rear of human progress and see to its
safety.
Judge not that we -are the advocates for whal
some nave considered a blessed state of untutored
simplicity amlinnocency. Progress is man’s
destiny. His nature impels him onward. That
nature, however noble and lovely in its intellec
tual and physical structure, is yet deeply corrupt
ed. and his progress often tends to rum. YVe pro
mise not to convert him—this is tho business of
Helm ion. We propose not to rule him—this is
the business of Government. We propose to be
friend and help him—this is a high and honored
duly of man to his fellow—this is Odd Fellow
elijLp. :
Brethren of the Order:—Wo cannot closo
these remarks without a word of encouragement
ami counsel, exclusively to you. The rapid and
unexampled increase w hich'has marked this or
ganization, m the mi 1st of the I'Jtli century, is of
itsell no small compliment to its character and
tendencies; composed, as it is, of all classes of
Society, from the reverend divine of the various
Christum denominations, to the humblest artizan
who rests his clcims.of membership upon integ
rity am goodwill. You know that no one can
rank as a good Odd Fellow who does not first
rank as an honest man. How important to sus
tain a position won by principles both of moral
strength ami practical utility. This is to be ef
tectcd only by the double caution of guarding
well the portals of the . heart and the entrance
doers of our Lodges. For the first, the sentinel
is within the bosom of each of us—keep it in
structed, wakelul. active. The watchstand of
the other, is the ballot-box. Both doing their
duty the cheerinnr cry will long continue to bo
heard—-all is well—while humanity and charity
nmte their voices to swell the chorus—a// is u*cll
DR. J UNKIN’S ADDRESS ON EDUCATION.
YY e Tegtel that tho state of the weather prevent
ed our citizens from enjoying an opportunity to
hear Dr. Junkin' on Monday evening. Dr. .1. is
a veteran in the cause of Education, having for al
most twenty years heen he ad of sonic Literary In
stitution. 11 is address being designed chiefly to
enforce the claims ol a thorough course of liberal
Education, did not present so many features of in
terest to the community generally as might be de
sirable for a popular assembly. YVe join him cor
dially in protesting against the detraction from the
value of a classical course which is to be found in
some quarters.
RAIL ROAD MEETINGS.
Hugh YY. Siu ffey, Esq., and Col. George Bay
lor, will address the citizens of VVuynesliorough and
its vicinity, on Saturday next, at 3 o’clock, P. M.,
on the importance of the freeholders authorizing a
subscription on the part of the Cffunly to the stock
bf the Louisa Rail Road.
And on Saturday the 10th day of this month,
(May,) John B. Baldwin, Esq., and others, will ad
dress the citizens of Newport and its Vicinity on the
same subject.
I he L niversity.—The Catalogue for the pres
ent session, shows that this institution is more pros
perous than it has been for some years, past. The
number of students is 2GG—of these 236 are from
\ irginia. YY'ith an able faculty, and all other ne
cessary means and appliances, the University af
fords facilities for acquiring a thorough education not
surpassed in the United States.
CCJ- At a meeting of the subscribers to the stock
ofRio Lynchburg and Tennessee Rail-fond held in
Lynchburg, last week, the lion. Wji. C. Rives,
the Hon. John Y. Mason, the Hon. \V>i. S. Ar
ciier, and Lieut. M. F. Maury were appointed
a delegation to represent the State of Virginia in
the Memphis Convention,
A new section of the Louisa Rail road was
to be opened to Shadwcll Mills, on Monday last'
and passengers will now dine in Charlottesville.
On Tuesday last, Cnpt. Win. H. Harman was
elected Major of the 160th Regiment of Virginia
Militia, in the place of Maj. J. Marshall McCue;
resigned.— Vindicator.
Increase of Population.—Mrs. Miller, resi
ding near Fahnestock’s brick yard, Harrisburg, on
Monday morning last, gave birth to five boys, all
of which are alive and doing well. What makes
this case singular is, that at her first confinement
she gave birth ta two and at her second to three,
and at this, her tfiird .jive, making, in all fen chil
dren in four years, and all living.
Tiik Hon Fayette M’Mullen.—iThe P« »or*r
burg Intelligencer says “we have not yet heard tbd
faintest crow from any of the. “ champions” of De
mocracy over the election to Congress of the Hon.
Fayette M’Mullen. We hear loud huzzas over tho
“gallant Avcretl,” the “accomplished Holladay,”
&.C., &c., hut not a word about Fayette. VV hat tho
deuce is tho matterV*
Franklin, (La.) ArniL 1/, 1340.
I write amidst glootn and death on every side.—
'Lite cholera is sweeping through our midst like i
destroying angel. When it strikes, it destroys.—
Both sexes, all classes, ages, and conditions are a
like its daily victims. Thehegroes suffer most ex.
te|isi,vcly, but every day sees the scourge extendf
itself emohg otif white population.
The legislature of Massachusetts have unarUi
mously passed resolutions inviting President Tay
lor to visit that Slate, and, have appointed a com
mitten, eomjiosed of members of both houses, to
make suitable arrangements for his reception.
--—-—m
Duel,_A duel wasfoughtat Old Point bet ween
.1. I’. Jones (a Passed Midshipman in the Navy)
and Dr. James Hope, (a nephew of Commodore
Barron.) Both were severely, if not mortally,'
woundtd.—Norfolk Argus.
Throe hundred and fifty F.nglish and Scotch
Mormons have arrived at St. Louis on their wav
to California to join their brethren in tho valley of
the Salt Lake.