News of tl)c ißcck.
New M E xico._aS have been received
at St. Louis from Santa Ee down to Februaiy
10th. Details are given of the horrible massa
cre at Taos and subsequent battles.
The dates from El Passo are to January 29th.
Major Clark had arrived with the artillery.
Colonel Doniphan was hastening preparations
to advance on Chihuahua. He had heard of
General Wool’s leaving for Saltillo. Captain
Mitchell’s company had pushed 21 days advance
on the main line, which was expected to move
Feb. Gth. Captain Doniphan was confident of
taking Chihuahua. He reported 5000 Mexicans
there, but doubtless this was much exaggerated,
no Mexican supplies or reinforcements could
as be expected nearer than Durango. Colonel
Price, with three hundred men and four how
itzers, had advanced to Puebla, where the Mex
icans had fortified two strong large houses and
a church, on the 31st January, and immediate
attacked them. At the first charge of the dra
goons and infantry, seven Americans were kill
ed and several wounded. Capt. Burguin was
fatally shot in the lungs as he was gallantly
leading the company to the attack. The church
and houses were stormed. The Mexicans re
tired, and the dragoons pursued and killed 150
or 200. Complete victory achieved. Ameri
can loss 12 killed, and 30 wounded.
General Taylor’s Operations.—“ Old
Rough and Ready” had returned to Saltillo, af
ter a fruitless pursuit of Urrea, though he was
at one time near him in the vicinity of Marin.
Gen. Taylor was pushing forward large supplies
towards Potosi, in advance of his own march.
He was to have set out on the 15th at the head
of nearly eight thousand men—sufficient for the
purpose, the old hero thinks.
Vera Cruz. —Advices are to the 2d inst.—
Gen. Quitman, with the division, had proceed
ed to the capture of Alvarado. Com. Perry,
with steamer Mississippi, two sloops of war,
and musquito fleet to operate with him. A letter
from a son of John Quincy Adams, serving in
the squadron, was received in Boston on Thurs
day, announcing the capture of Alvarado by a
detachment under command of Col. Harney.—
A letter confirmatory of this was received in
.. Philadelphia on Friday.
Gen. Twiggs’ command left 31st ult., for Pu
enta Nacional. Gen. W orth was acting Gover
nor of Vera Cruz ; he was to follow on the sth
for the same destination.
Santa Anna reached the city ol Mexico on
the 2-ltli ult. He took sides with the church
party in the revolution, and was immediately
inaugurated President. The Archbishop ol
Mexico has agreed to let him have five millions
of dollars.
The Bombardment.—“ Montgomery,” the
from able correspondent of the Sun, writing
before. Vera Cruz, and describing the invest
ment. says :
9‘Gen. Scott has landed and encircled the rear
of the city like a bent bow ; each end touching
the sea and cutting off all succour from the in
terior. In port, in free communication with
the army, rides Commodore Perry’s gallant
squadron. Pent up in this unbroken circle of ;
cannon lies Vera Cruz, and full one-third of the
whole amount of arms, munitions and soldiers
at the command of the Republic. They must
fight—they are fighting—yet the end is certain.
All this means of defence is thrown away, sac
rificed by the listless indifference of their ru
lers, who have ever wasted, and ever will
waste, the wealth and energies of the country
in their own personal struggles for power. I
have said the army of Gen. Scott encompassed
the city on the landward side, and its inhabi
tants and defenders are strictly confined within
their own walls, while ranged along the sea
front are the American vessels of war ; both
arms of the invasion ot a strength and charac
ter that renders a long defence out of the
question.”
During the sixteen days intervening between
the landing and capture of Vera Cruz, five days
of violent northers prevailed, in which all
landing of stores was entirely interrupted ;
and during seven days of open trenches, there
were two days and nights in which it was im
possible to undertake any new works, or even
to clear the trenches and batteries of large
quantities of drift sand.
The bombardment of Vera Cruz was post
poned for several hours, by the order of Gen.
Scott, after all the arrangements to commence
operations had been made, with the humane
view of inducing the Mexicans to send the wo
men and children out of the city, and he prof
fered his aid to place them out of danger. It
is much to be regretted that this proposition
was not acceded to.
The batteries opened on the 23d ult., and
with slight intermission, played on the city
until the 28th. A battery of two 32-pounders.
and four 6S-pounders, from the squadron, man
ned by seamen, and commanded by officers
from the squadron, was placed directly in the
rear of the city on the evening of the 22d, and
opened its fire on the morning of the 23d. This
battery told with such powerful effect, that of
the twelve batteries of the enemy surrounding
the city, five were directed to it without hav
ing the least effect in dampening the ardor of
those who worked it. It was manned by one
hundred and fifty seamen, and commanded by
five or six officers, the party being relieved ev
ery 21 hours, from the squadron, and it is uni
versally admitted that no guns in our whole
line were worked with better effect.
On the evening of the 22d inst., what is
termed the Musquito fleet, consisting of the
steamers Spitfire, Capt. Tatnall, and Vixen,
Capt, Sands, and schooners Petrel, Lieut.
Shaw ; Bonita, Lieut. Benham ; Reefer, Lieut.
Sterrett; Tampico, Lieut. W. P. Griftin; and
Falcon, Lieut. Glasson ; each vessel having one
heavy gun, and commanded by Capt, Tatnall,
moved up from the anchorage at Sacrificios,
and took position on the extreme right of our
line, close in shore, and commenced firing shot
and shell into the city. They retained this po
sition until the morning of the 23d, when they
got under way and stood within about a quarter
of a mile of the Castle, ala point to the north
of the Washerwoman Shoal, so that both Cas
tle and city were within reach of their guns.—
They retained their position for two or three
hours,and were then called off with slight
damage.
The capitulation agreed upon on the 28th,
was consummated on the 29th. On the morn
ing of that day, Gen. Scott, with Gen. Worth
and his division, accompanied by the chief of
ficers ®f the army, and a large representation
from the squadron, entered and took possession,
the enemy at the same time marching out. As
the American flag was hoisted at the Plaza, and
over San Juan de Ulloa, salutes were fired si
multaneously from the Castle, the batteries of
the city and squadron. Gen. Scott immediate
ly took up his quarters in the Palace, and in
vested Gpn. Worth with the command of the
city, assigning, at the same time, the command
of the Castle to Col. Benton ; that of Fort Jo
go, at the southern extremity of the city, to
that of Major Wright, and that of Fort Con
ception, at the northern extremity, to Major
Scott.
The city and Castle are to be held by the na
vy, composed of detachments of marines, and
from the crews of several mcn-of-war.
Capt. Vinton, who was killed early in tin
siege by a shell, which struck him on the sid<
of his head, has left a family of four children
entirely orphan. His wife was the daughte:
of Ebenezer Parker, Esq., of Boston—a lad'
■ endowed with every personal and mental at
traction, and one who will long be remember
ed. She died several years since, leaving be
hind her a beautiful memory of a young am
. exemplary wife and mother—one never to li
thought of without a recollection of her refine,
and delicate sensibility. And now the brav
spirit of the warrior-husband is joined to tha
of the loving bride, and it is the tears of th
orphan children of the bereaved and veiierabl
mother, of the band of manly brothers tha
will water his bier and unite in fond recollec
tions around the sepulchral urn of the her
slain in battle.
The official field return of the forces unde
Gen. Scott on the 25th of March, before Ver
Cruz, shows an aggregate of 13,-170—one <
the best disciplined and most gallant corps i
the world.
Explosion. —A dreadful explosion occurre
n Wednesday morning at 0 o’clogk in Dupont
I Powder Mills, near Wilmington, Delaware.—
| The packing house, drying house, and six
j thousand pounds of powder were destroyed.
1 | Eighteen men were blown to atomns !
Albany Charter Election.—Whig offi
cers were chosen ; Mr. Parmlee, the new May
or is opposed to the new license law, and grants
licences in defiance of it.
.Executions in Pennsylvania.—There |
are now no less than three persons under sen
fence of death in Pennsylvania. One in Phila- ;
■ delphia ; one in Lancaster; and one in Pitts- ,
jburgh.
Canal around the Falls of St. Mary. I
i—A project for connecting Lake Superior with j
our other Western Lakes, by means of a ship *
i canal around the Falls of St. Mary, has for sev- '
1 eral years been in contemplation ; but the dif- i
. ficulty of obtaining a charter for a company for ■
that purpose, has prevented anything very defi- '
nite being done. This charter has been obtain- i
; ed, and the work will be commenced, at the
latest, by the first of July.
-
Mr. Alexander, magician, and exhibitor
1 of varied enchantments, opens a series of his
wonderful and amusing performances to-mor
row night, at the Minerva Rooms, Broadway.
Our readers may remember the sensation pro
| duced by this clever artiste some time since,
and may promise themselves a very pleasant
entertainment at any of his soirees.
Co cal News.
I Charge of Conspiracy .—Singulcr case of Fraud.
—On Wednesday or Thursday last Behrman
• Claudius Dord, and a man named Rowe, who car-
• ry on business in Beaver street, were arrested by
officer Burleigh, under a warrant granted by Jus
tice Drinker, on the compaint of a man named
Janies S. Holman. We take the following facts
from the affidavit of Holman ; he stated he resides
at 801 Broadway, that on the 15th of March last
and previous, he owned a tract of land in Texas,
of the value of SIO,OO0 —that on that day a person
named D. Behrman, came to him and told him he
Behrman could effect a sale of the lands for dry
goods, upon advantageous terms Behrman left,
| and a few days after called on him, Holman, with
i a list of the goods which were to be given in ex
! change for the lands. Whereupon Holfiian at the
■ request of Behrman, went with the latter to the
store of Dord, for the purpose of examining the
' goods. Holman was then shown a large quantity
’ of goods by Dord, and in doing so was aided and
| assisted by Rowe, who appeared to be in connec
’ tion with Dord in the transaction. Holman furth-
I er states he was very particular in his examination
I of the goods, to ascertain their quality and value,
and in order further-to assure himself of these facts
1 he brought competent judges with him, who ascer
j tamed that the sample shown was of goods newly
■ imported from France, and current in the market,
! and of the value placed on them by Dord, who as
j sured him that they were the sort with which he
i supplied his Southern and Western customers,
i Holman having satisfied himself with the charac
j ter and quality of the goods, proceeded to com
: plete the exchange, and conveyed the tract of land
Ito Dord and Rowe; they’on the other hand were to
; give goods according to the sample, to the amount
I of $9,858 83-100, which they were to put in boxes,
and deliver to Holman. The goods were accord
ingly packed up and removed by Holman to the
store of Spicer & Austen, but upon unpacking them
; to his surprise, as he states, he found their contents
j were altogether different from the sample; instead
; of being newly imported from France and market*
| able, and of the value charged, they were of a dif
’ ferent kind, and of a very inferior quality, and
without currency in the market, and not worth the
| sum all told of SSOO Upon these facts the Justice
, granted his warrant, under which the parties were
j arrested on Wednesday, as before stated, and are
j still-in the custody of the officers, ii t v il. ntiriu
! so until the trial is fixed.
i P. S. We should like to know how it happened
j that the morning and evening papers since Wed
r nesday last, have been as silent as the grave on this
■ case ?— Reporter.
; Fire.—A fire was discovered on Tuesday
I morning about half past two o’clock, in the
■ house of Mr. Beech,lo7 Troy st. Fortunately
' it was discovered in good time, and was extin
guished with but little damage. The. fire was
communicated from the flue of the furnaces
Burglary and Robbery.—Jamco Conroy,
an old offender, was arrested by officer Peal ol
the 17th District, on a charge of burglary and
robbery. Conroy, it appeared, broke into the
, house of Bhruban Reed, No. 129 Third Avenue,
■ by forcing one of the windows of the basement
; story, where he found two gold rings and a
1 breast-pin, which he carried off. He was
committed.
' Grand Larceny.—Edward Travers, a boy
' | about 15 years of age, was arrested on Friday
' | night, by policeman Garrison, of the 10th
j District, charged with having stolen from M.
’ L. Patton, a gold watch and breast-pin, valued
j at s6l. He was fully committed.
Death from Congestion of the Brain.
P —The Coroner held an inquest yesterday, at
the Fourth District Station House, in James"
! street, on the body of Mary Kelly, a native ol
I Ireland, aged about 10 years. One of the po-
? I licemen of the Fourth District found her at a
. j late hour on Friday night on the side-walk in
I South street, in a fit of delirium tremens, and
removed her to the Station House., where she
• died shortly after. Dr. Holmes made an ex
-3 ternal examination of the body, and was of
opinion that she died from congestion of the
brain, brought on by intemperance.—Verdict
’ accordingly.
General Worth. —A meeting of several I
’ of the most respectable and influential members '
• of the New York Bar, natives of the city ol I
Hudson, was held in the early part of last |
week, and resolutions passed to subscribe a sum j
to purchase a valuable sword, to be presented |
- to the gallant General, who also dates his na-1
, tivity from Hudson, as a token of their admi- ;
ration of his distinguished services in the Mex- !
r ican war.
t Pettit Larcenies. —James Cook, James j
Higbfield, William Laghlin, Eliza Cunning- •
ham, Samuel Carr, Henrietta Smith, and Win.
'■ Johnson, were committed for small thefts
1 Grand Larceny.—Charlotte Fitzgerald
1 was arrested yesterday morning by Officer ;
- Golden on a charge of having stolen a trunk ol
_ clothing and SSO. Committed.
e Stj.xday Services.—We have no space to-day,
t for extended notices, and they are the less required, i
> as those we have given formerly must have ap- I
; prized our readers of the means of grace so boun- i
I tifully provided, and for which we should be tin- j
- ceasingly grateful; which, moreover, we sincerely .
ti u-t, all our readers may have the heart to improve. ■
The Protestant Episcopal church, in the Sixth j
avenue, opposite Amity street, is open to-morrow !
afternoon and evening. This is a free church, and '
8 has, we understand, an excellent Sunday School j
'1 attached to it, with a competent superintendent and j
- devoted teachers.
>f Mrs. Marget Bishop preaches to-day at three and j
_ i seven o’clock, upon the subject of that passage in
. I the Vtli chapter of Zechariah, as follows: “ Then 1
e ; lift up mine eyes, and looked, and behold there
I came out two women, and the wind was in their
' I wings—for they had wings, like the wings of a
• ntork—and they lift up the cphah between the
0 i heaven and the earth.” It is a remarkable thing
l - that Mrs. Bishop is the only divine who attempts to
•r grapple with the dark sayings of the obscurer
I prophets, and especially the apocalypse.
The Rev. B. F. Barrett will deliver his sixteenth
(j ; lecture on the Sacred Scripture, this afternoon, at
I three o’clock, in the New York Society Library
i Building, corner of Broadway and Leonard street.
I j Subject: The tine Scripture doctrine concerning
; hell, as elicited by the aid of the science of corres-
II ’ ; poudences.
i We also observe that Mr. Forscli will lecture, in
ly English, before thej Society of Liberals and
t- Friends of Paine, at half-past two o’clock, at Cro
r- ’on Hall, corner of Bowery and Division street.
I We cannot judge of the character of this address :
e " | indeed, we have no right to do so ; tiie command
id [ being, “ Judge not. lest ye be jueged.”
j The Crosby street Prophet continues to hold
■ forth, in energetic and powerful opposition to the
sd Millerites, or Second Adventists, who are preach
,,e ing the immediate coming of Christ and destruc
tion of the world. Our prophet is to be heard nt
at No. 11l Bowery, up stairs.
ie A Blue-stockixg making herself useful.—
Miss “Grace Greenwood” is the most clever,
at i spirited and manly of our female writers. Whcn
c- j ever-she writes without the affectation, of feminine
ro i softness she writes remarkably well. We are glad
' to see that, in connection with her sister who, we
ei . suspect, is no other than the “ Kate Richmond,”
, ra of the ladies’ magazines, she has opened a school
f for young ladies at No. 71 East Broadway. If we
° ; had fifty daughters, we would send them every one
111 ! to this charming “Grace Greenwood,” and her
i sister “ Kate.” There is really very little non
' sense about either of them, and if they have any
’ed • spare time, the Dispatch is open to their pens, with
’ better pay than they get from Graham of Godey,
Movements of the Coming Week.—The first i
movement of which we have any notice is that of
the Italian Opera Company, late from Havana, to
the chilly metropolis of the down easters. We pity
their shivering souls, if the wind holds at any point i
between north and east, much longer.
To-morrow evening there is to be a grand com
plimentary Washingtonian Temperance Demon
stration, in honor of Captain Wisdom, one of the
original, moral suasion, Baltimore Temperance
reformers, at the Green street Methodist Church.
I Little Oliver, and a few other hard legal suasion
j characters, of his kidney are on the committee :
’ but we hope the affair will come off well, for all
I that Oliver could not get elected President of the
■ “ Old Parent,” but he is a useful committee man,
I especially when there is any printing to be done.
I The City Tract Society’s Board hold their regu
. lar monthly meeting at the Tract House, corner of
I Nassau and Spruce sts., to-morrow evening at 71-2
I o’clock, for the reception of the Reports of mis-
■ sionaries, and for the transaction of other business.
■ Our amiable tract distributer whose missions to
! Aim-streetand the Dispatch office, we iiave often •
' noted, will, we hope, give account of her benevo- |
I lentefibrts.”
I The original Swiss Bell ringers commence a *
j series of Concerts at the Tabernacle,to-morrow eve
ning. ■
The Illsley’s also give their second concert at tlic :
Apollo.
At 10 o’clock, to-morrow morning, the soldiers’
Mission Church on Governor’s Island, is to be de
dicated. This will be an interesting occasion.—
The south Ferry boats will land both ways.
Mr. Charlc sA. Dana—“ City Items,’—lectures I
to-morrow night at the Broadway Lyceum, on the |
“practical principles of Association.” Mr. Dana
has been a member of the Brooklyn Farm Pha
lans, and has an experimental knowledge on the
subject. The ladies have our assurance additional, |
that he is a handsome man and an eloquent speak
er—“a man,” as some saucy letter writer has said,
“with expansive sympathies, and a wide shirt col- ‘
lar.” These lectures are free.
On Tuesday morning at 12 o’clock, at the Apollo j
Saloon, the Rev. Dr. Muhlenbugh will deliver an j
address, on the occasion of the -list Anniversary j
of the Orphan Asylum Society. The Orphans will ■
engage in various interesting exercises. Should ■
the weathei prove inclement, the meeting will be |
postponed until the first clear day.
On Wednesday, the pews of the Blcecker street ;
Presbyterian Church, will be sold at auction. —1
Those Of the New Church of the Holy Trinity, in :
Brooklyn, arc also to be disposed of, early this j
week.
On Wednesday evening, Mr. Bradbury’s last .
and greatest musical festival, under the pretty •
name of Flora’s festival, conies off at the Taberna- I
cle. Eight hundred children —and all the girls !
dressed in white frocks and wreaths of flowers, i
will make a spectacle worth looking at. As Mr. i
B. leaves very soon for Germany, on a musical pil- j
grimage, this will be the last opportunity for some ;
time, of attending his exhibitions.
Mr. IL 11. Van Ainringe will deliver a Lecture ’
on the principles and objects of National Reform,
at the house of Henry Fountain, Staten Island, on ■
Thursday evening, April 22, at seven o’clock, and '
at the Rechabitc Tent, Granite Village, on Friday :
evening, April 23, at the same hour.
The Eye.—AVc copy the following article from |
the JSccning Afinor,and. and commend the subject I
to the careful attention of the reader.
This ,important organ, which has been termed i
“The mirrors of intellect,” is fraught with the most !
exquisite beauty and design. The investigation of
its wonderful structure would occupy the most vi- i
gorous years allotted to the scientific mind. Its;
functions however, are extremely liable to be ini- j
peded by disease, to which it is extremely liable,
and the treatment of which requires the skill of
those who have made the eye their sole brnnch of
study. Dr. AVheelcr of 29 Greenwich street, who
has been long and favorably known as an Oculist,
has evinced how much can bo efiected by patient
perseverance, and a perfect knowledge of his pro
fession. The most unpromising cases have yield
ed to his treatment; by the perusal of his pamphlet i
it will be observed that numbers of our most res- |
pectable citizenshave voluntarily attested to his
skill and eminent success in this branch of science.
Individuals desirous of procuring his treatise, may
obtain it gratis, either by letter (post paid,) or on
application at his residence as above.
interesting scientific exhibition is ,
likely to attract all the illuminati to Niblo’s
Garden this week, where Crutchell’s Solar Gas ;
is exhibited every evening, from Bto 10 o’clock. '
This gas presents a new means cf turning night
into day, and gloom into splendor ; and it is pos- '
sible it may have some effect on the stock of the
gas companies.
■ j
We were looking, a day or two ago, at t
some beautiful White English Stone ware, at '
Hadley’s, No. 201 Greenwich street —and are 1
tempted to advise housekeepers, before they
make their Spring purchases, to examine it. —
Hadley has also a large variety of Chinaware,
English and French, vase and clock shades,
etc.
A recent work published, showing the
influence of various trades, arts and professions
on the health, strictly enjoins frequent bath
ing as the sure preservative of mental and phys
ical vigor and comfort. And, adds the writer,
where attainable, use the hot saltwater bath.
That bath is attainable here—at Gray’s, adjoin
ing the Fulton Ferry, Brooklyn.
We commend to families who are about
to re-furnish their sleeping apartments, Lind
i ley’s improved patent bedsteads, the advan- :
. tages of which, over those commonly in use, arc
manifest. The bedstead can be taken down or
put up in a single moment, and-the screw fits
so tightly that it is impossible for a bed-bug to
find a lodging-place. One may be certain of
getting rid of this latter annoyance by purchas
j ing Lindley’s patent bedstead. Sold by Gctrdi
! ncr, No. 69 Gold st., one door from Beekman
I street.
! (toy- The Perkins House, on the corner of ;
} Christie and Division sts., a house superbly fit- •
i ted up and kept in first rate style, is, we are |
glad to learn, doing a fire business. Its sleep- I
• ing apartments are roomy and admirably venti-
: lated —its parlors and club-rooms furnished i
I with every convenience—its bar supplied with !
the choisest liquors,—and its larder stocked ;
with all the delicacies of the season."
(Jtf- A gentleman claimed our acquaintance I
a few days ago.
“ You are mistaken,” we said, “ we do not |
know you.”
“ Not know me,” he replied; “ why I am S." i
“ Nonsense,” we rejoined, “ S. had carroty
i hair.”
“That’s a fact,” he returned, “ 1 had; but I ■
| applied Gardcuur’s inimitable hair dye, and see !
; the change
He raised ms hat and exposed a head of beau- ;
j tiful brown hair. This inimitable dye can be ■
! had at Gardener’s, wig, curl and perfumery ■
store, No. 91 Canal street.
‘ Our readers’ attention is requested to the ad- i
vertisement of sale of wagons, &c., at Tatter- ;
sails, to-morrow morning.
Mercer’s “ Coffee Room.”—The “ Restaurants” of ■
the city of New York, have become so universally the
places for business men and strangers on business in the
city, for brief and social refreshments, that it has be
come a matter of general interest to know where to
drop in, with the best prospect of a pleasant lunch. !
i “ Mercer’s,” on the corner of Ann and Nassau, is the i
• I most perfect in its kind of any we have entered in New ,
, York. It is beautifully fitted up, and kept with the i
i most perfect neatness, while every dish which you may '
1 j choose to call, comes in quality, quantity, and style of I
• j cooking and dressing, not to be surpassed anywhere.
j Mercer’s Coffee is unequalled. Those who really
love a rich cup of this delicious beverage, will be sure
I of Jit here, and with such a flavor as to isure a repeti
’ ! tion of your calls.
• | No smell of alcohol is to be found here. Mr. Al. is i
’ himself a Son of Temperance.
! A private entrance, leading to a retired and beautiful '
I ! dining saloon on the second floor, for ladies and gentle-
! men in their company, is another of the attractions of ,
’ I this establishment. All this at the same low rates as
. I ordinary eating houses.
j So says the Columbia Washingtonian, and we say
I ditto.
THE DEFORMED TRANSFORMED.
. ! A broad, high brow has Mary Jane,
And her cheeks and chin are dimpled ;
’ I But her skin was as dark as the gipsey stain
■ I And horribly freckled and pimpled !
Luckless Mary Jane !
“ 1 cannot endure,” said she, one day,
“ So blemished a face and forehead !”
Then with GOURAUD’S Soap, she washed away
’ i Her freckles and pimples horrid.
s | Lucky Mary Jane !
I rr/-’ A clean, white, transparent skin, is in the highest
’ i degree essential to every lady. No matter how faultless
' I may be the outline of the features, they cannot excite
, admiration, unless free from Tan, Pimples,, ballowncss,
1 Sunburn, and other skin blemishes. Nothing on earth
, will so readily accomplish the removal ol these draw
' backs to beauty, as GOURAUD’Sincomparable Italian
’ Medicated Soap—which has the further recommenda
. tion of making a rich lather even when with
1 hard or salt water, and is consequently inestimable for
Shaving also. Oouraud’s Poudres Subtiles will inlalli
e bly eradicate every vestige of superfluous Hair, to
P which this remarkable triumph of chemistry may be
applied. For coloring red, light, or grey Hair a beauti
r ful glossy black, it is only necessary to use Gouraud’s
wonderful Grecian Hair Dye ? Pale cheeks and lips
may have a permanent rosiness imparted to them, by a
.. single application of Gouraud’s lovely preparation of
Liquip Vegetable Rouge.
h Please Remember-—No articles are genuine, unless
purchased at DR. FELIX GOURAUD’S import, 67
Jtrwt fltft jtejs from BrosdwsY.
Messrs. Henry J. Storms, & Co., of No.
34 Fulton st., have just supplied a very large
amount of Government orders, for military and
naval equipments. At their large military and
I naval furnishing store, every article which the
• officer or soldier needs, may be procured.
OC?* A very choice brand of cigars may be
found at Beers & Bogart’s, who put up for fam
ily use, the best liquors—wines, brandies, etc.
Their store is.at No. 177 South street.
“What has been longest known has been most con
sidered ;
And what has been most considered is best under
stood.”
> BRANDRETH’S VEGETABLE PILLS.
Ninety-one years before the Public.
THE PREVAILING COMPLAINTS.
Few persons are without a cold or cough, or some un
pleasant tickling in the throat, about these days. Let
me impress upon all such the propriety of using Bran
dreth’s Pills. The experience of ninety years has proved
them the natural medicine of man. They arc a sure
cure. They are sure to do no harm. Their beneficial '
powers are beyond all attempts at elucidation. They I
I must be used to be appreciated. Can be used without I
i change of diet, and the body is less liable to cold when .
they.are used than at any other time. Such'are the ad j
j vantages of these vegetable and celebrated Pills. They i
■ gradually but surely remove all causes of disease from
' the body, no matter how produced. They are alike
adapted for young or old, or either sex.
I All diseases of long standing, as bronchitis, affections
j of the throat or windpipe, rheumatism, affections of the
joints or muscles, cuticular affections of the skin, and all i
i complaints whose duration has been over forty days, <
; may be classed as Chronical Diseases. Brandrcth’s Pills,
| in all these cases, must bo used several times a week to
effect a cure. Their suspension for a week or so must
depend upon circumstances.
During the suspension of the purgation, the patient re
covers new humors in place of those diseased ones ho
has evacuated. But so long as any of the diseased humors
remain in the system, they will tend, according to their ,
quantity, to vitiate the new sound humors. So the pur- 1
gation must be repeated, suspended, repeated and Sus’ !
pended, until the cure is perfect. One thing is sure, that |
j the continuance will do no harm ; and further, that all I
j the good will be done towards a perfect cleansing of the :
blood that it is capable for medicine to do, as has been '
; proved in ten thousand cases.
To obtaih a perfect cure, not a pai tide of the humors,
j which were depraved while sick, must remain in the
j system. New sound humors must be supplied when the I
| old ones are removed.—common sense tells us this.
' The weak, the feeble, the infirm, the nervous, and ■
j the delicate, are in a few days strengthened by this I
I oourse, and the worst complaints are removed by perse' |
| verance without the expense of a physician. Adapted
| to all circumstances and situations, they are the best
medicines ever invented for families, or to take to sea, ,
' preventing scurvy and costiveness, requiring no change '
! of diet, particular regimen, oi’ care against taking cold, i
• TESTIMONIAL from twenty-three citizens of Tarry- '
, town, Westchester county, N. Y., concerning the value j
i of BRANDRETH’S PILLS, as a cure in BILIOUS and '
i DYSPEPTIC cases.
January 11, 1817.
j Dr. B. Brandreth :
I My Dear Sir—We, the undersigned, being fully con- ,
• vinced of the superior quality of your Vegetable Uni- j
; versal Pilis -over all others as a Cathartic Medicine, ;
! which opinion is founded on our own personal expert- I
! once—having used them for years as a family medicine, j
' We therefore take pleasure in thus recommending them i
| as specially excellent in preventing and curing those |
i bilious difficulties to which almost every individual is |
i at certain periods of the year, more or less subject. In i
I all dyspeptic cases in which wc have seen them used,
. they have invariably effected a perfect cure. The ,
method of using them was to take one or two every •
■ night when going to bed. Whoever that is dyspeptic, |
j and follows this advice, will be sure of a cure, so we be- i
’ lieve, as wc have never known them to fail. Nothing :
' but tho welfare of our fellow beings have induced us to !
■ write this; you will therefore confer a particular favor :
■ upon us by having it published.
(Signed,)
Jacob ©dell, P. M. ( has. JI. Underhill,
' D. M. Lent, Willet Carpenter,
j John F. Child, W. F. Van A art,
Elias Mann. B. A. Clapp,
George Mills, Henry B. Ipdd,
I John Derwerc, Elijah Welday,
Steuben Swartwout, Win. D. Ward,
1 E. L. Hall, Joseph H. Vail,
John Leonard, PhoS. Dean,
J M.D. Marling, Cornelius Losse,
JohnL. Weeks, W. A Welday,
James 8. See.
BRANDRETH’S PILLS are soldaf-25 cents per box !
i (with full directions) at Dr Brandreth’s Principal j
Oh ice,2ll Broadway. Also at 271 Bowery,2ll Hudson ;
street; Mrs. Booth, 5 Market street, Brooklyn, and ‘by ;
one agent in every place of importance throughout the .
world; each agent having a certificate of agency from !
Dr. Brandreth, having fac-simile of labels on the Bran- I
dreth Pill Boxes engraved thereon.
Beware of Counterfeit Pills. Be sure you either pur
chase at my offices, or of respectable store keepers ; it
is the only way to secure the genuine Brandreth Pills.
B. BRANDRETH. ;
CQ- REV. J. N. MAFFITT—To R. G. Radway—ln re ‘
lation to the virtues of Rad way’s Chinese Medicated
Soap,says:
I take great pleasure in recommending to the public, I
as worthy of general patronage, your valuable Chinese
Medicated Soap, as an article of the toilet, it isnotsur- I
■ passed by any thing of the kind 1 have ever used.
'Respectfully, J- N. Maffitt.
Well might the Reverend gentleman recommend this :
excellent soap. It is without a rival. For the toilet, it |
is a pleasant and an agreeable emolient, softening and
purifying the cuticle from all blemish,pustules and ex
cressences As a medicinal preparation, it effectually
cures Salt Rheum, Ring Worm, Erysipelas, Rash, Mor
phew, Scurvey, and in fact all diseases and discolora
tions of thb skin, yields to the beneficial influence of this
excellent soap. i
Sold for only 12 1-2 cents a cake, at 192 and 119 Broad- I
way ; 121 Fulton street; 271 Bowery ; 170 Canal street, ‘
N. Y.; 139 Fulton street, Brooklyn ;E. H. Trippe, New- ■
ark ; Watson, Rahway ; Van Buskirk, Jersey City, j
Principal Depot, oi HUDSON STREET, N. Y.
jX7=- CLIREHUGH’S New Invented and Improved |
Ventilating and- Gpssaniei* Wigs and Scalps may, for :
elegance, lightness and durability, be classed among the ■
first productions of modern ai In their manufacture,
they differ from all others made here. The hair is singly |
inserted, and so equally distributed as to appear just |
issuing from the skin. They are formed to the brow as |
the natural hair grows, and having no metallic springs •
all disagreeable pressure is obviated. They arc strong
without, weight clastic without being loose, cool and
thin as gossamer, fitting the head with the same ease and i
tenacity as a silk stocking docs the limb, and withal- I
the natural appearance of a veritable Head of Hair.
For a Southern climate they are inestimable. Sena- i
tors, Members of Congress, and gentlemen from every |
quarter of the country, who are now wearing G. s wigs,
can be referred to. The prices will be found to suit the I
circumstances of all. , .
Inventor, Sole Proprietor and latentce ol the 1 rico- ;
pherous, for the cure of Baldness, Grey Hair, Scurf and !
Dandruff. 205 Broadway, up stairs, corner oi 1- ulton •
street.
A NEW COFFEE HOUSE AND DINING SA- |
LOON, US William street, between John and Fulton i
streets. This establishment has been newly fitted up in -
the best manner. Meals can be had at all hours of the
day from 7 o’clock in the morning until 10 at night
Prices low and fare good.
Also, a few good rooms for boarders. The public are
invited to call and sec for themselves. The establish
ment is under the superintendance of Wm. Wheeler.
late of the Andrcan, No. 19 Nassau street.
New York, MarclrJl,
{Q- Burns '. Scalds I'. Wounds ’. I'. Inflamations ! 11; :
Piles '. Rheumatism IPain of all Kinds.-
The magical effect produced by “DALLEI’S PAIN
EXTRACTOR,” in relieving aud curing all of the above
affections, and all Diseases of an External or Nervous
nature, has become proverbial, and millions will testify
that it will give immediate relief in every instance.
Pamphlets, containing fresh Certificates from phy
sicians and others, who have been cured, can be had at
our Depot gratis.
No person subject to the PILES should be an houi
without a box.
■ . O" Every prudent family will have it constantly oi
! hand, as its immediate application has, in thousands of
i instances, saved life.
■ Caution.—Beware ! counterfeits abound ! Every pur
chaser must be on his guard, and know that it come?
I from No. 208 Broadway.
i The only genuine has the written signature of H
i Dalley on every box, and no other name.
11. DALLEY & CO.,
No. 208 Broadway.
I GAYLER’S PREMIUM FIRE PROOF SAFES.-
I At the late Fair of the American Institute, the first pre
i mium medal was awarded to C. J. Gaylcr, for the best
j Double and Single Salamander Safes. Gaylor’s Double
i Safes arc, beyond a doubt, Fire Proof—and his improved
I Single Safes will effectually resist a more intense heat
I than any other single safes now in use. Gayler’s Safe:- '
! are all made entirely with wrought iron, and a non-con-
I ducting fire proof composition ; and arc furnished with I
| his improved secure Detector Locks, or with locksol '
I any description required. All who need the security I
; which is combined in the Safes bearing his name will
i please examine the assortment on hand and for sale by
LEONARD BROWN, 121 Water street.
-?•- NERVOUS IIEI'U.ITY.-Pn. Sarsa-
j parilla is performing thousands of cures in Nervou*
' Diseases, especially in Nervous Prostration and General
i Debility of the system. It effects the most astonishing
i results. The-patient frequently feels relieved in ten
J minutes. The following proof from a highly respccta
; ble gentleman, is in point.
New York, Dec.2B, 181 G.
! Dr. Townsend—Dear Sir : 1 have been severely affiict
i ed for a length of time with great Physical Debility and
j Prostration of the whole nervous system. At times I
j have fallen in the streets by attacks of dizziness in the
1 head, accompanied with singing in the ears. 1 also
suffered with the Dyspepsia, sickness at the stomanch.
: and sensation of faintness. 1 read that your Sarsaparilla
1 was used for such complaints, and procured a nettle,
j and to my astonishment and surprise, before I had used j
the one bottle. 1 was like another man ; indeed, it cured j
me entirely : 1 have never been so surprised at any re- !
suit in my life. I consider your medicine a great b’lcss
ing, and will extend its use as far as possible. You are
at liberty to publish this if you choose, i live and can
i be seen at No. 58 Prince street.
THOMAS LLOYD, Jun.
UNITED STATES OFFICER.
Capt. G. W. McLean of the United States Naw, has
kindly sent us the following certificate. It tells its own
story. - „
Rahway, Jan. 25, 1817
A year since 1 was taken with the Influenza, and my
i whole system left in a debilitated state. J was induced
; to try Dr. Townsend's Sarsaparilla, and after taking two
! or three bottles, 1 was very much relieved, and attribute
; it entirely to the : aid Sarsaparilla. 1 have continued
: taking it, and find that I improve every day. 1 believed
it saved my life, and would not be without it under any
! consideration. G- AV. McLEAN, late U. S. N.
Principal office, 126 Fulton street.
Other certificates on the outside.
LINES—Not by Byron.
I Know ye the shop where neat heads and smooth faces,
(The emblems of «killin the barbering line,)
Where the last touch that’s put on the unfinish'd graces
! Would make a D’Orsay even to pine 1
I Look for the shop, and mistake not the sign,
■ If you’d have your hair curl like the rings on the vine, '
! Or trimm’d and shampoo’d with rich balm and perfume.
i At 91 Canal street is the saloon.
■ Go ask his patrons, whose favors he's won,
I They will glory to tell of the deeds he has done ;
! O, fond is the language of lovers’ farewell,
’’ The friendsnips they bear and the tales which they tell.
R. G. GARDNER, 91 Canal street.
AT NEW YORK TATTERSALLS,
WILL be sold to-morrow morning, without reserve
for account of whom it may concern.
One New Claret Colored Rockaway IVagon, war
ranted for one year.
One Second Hand country built Rockaway.
Three square Tody Shooting or Market Wagons, by a
first rate maker, trimmed with inorrocco, and warrant
ed for six months.
One Second Hand Coach in good order, to pay storage
and expenses. .
Also, a great variety of baddies for account of insui
ance, as per adv ertisement jn Courier, &c.
’ in addition to which an extra catalogue of horse.-,
suitable for all purposes, harness, &c., &.c.
11. MEIGGS, Proprietor, 416 Broadway.
171 URNISHED Rooms to Let. with partial board to one
. or two gentlemen, in the house of a private family
. . whose object in letting is not having use for othei
. rooms on 2nd story. Situation Washington Place, the
, i house is in perfect order, having just been repaired and
1 . painted throughout. Terms moderate, for particulars
j j inquire at the jewellers, 206 Broadway.
i TXT ANTED, FROM §2OOO TO $3000.-A silent partner
f H wanted, who has that amount in cash to invest in a
business of a private nature already established, ano
s from which a large fartpn* a few years
j One who has that am* dchance.by
»ddressing a line
PILES CURED FOR LIFE.
Twenty thousand persons that have
USED DR. UPHAM’S ELECTUARY, for the Piles,
Chronic, Dysentery, Inflammatory Diseases and Severe
Costiveness, have given their certificates of cures made
by its use, when all other remedies have failed; and the
proprietors are now prepared to offer
ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
to any persons afflicted with Piles, and all diseases of a
similar nature, or which are found in conjunction with
i the Piles, if a cure is not effected by the use of
i DR. UPHAM’S VEGETABLE ELECTUARY,
I It is an Internal Remedy, not an external application,
and will cure any case of Piles, cither bleeding or blind,
internal or external, and the only thing that will. There
is no mistake about it. It is a positive cure, speedy and
permanent. Mt is also a convenient medicine to take, and
improves the general health in a remarkable manner.
It is very mild in its operation, and maybe taken in
cases of the most acute inflammation, without danger.
All external applications are in the highest degree dis
agreeable, inconvenient and offensive ; and from the
very nature of the disease, temporary in their effects.
This medicine attacks the disease at its source, and re
moving the cause, renders the cure certain and perma
nent.
The following arc a few of the many evidences of the
efficacy of this medicine, and let the sufferers, if they
are not convinced by these, only ask among their friends
if they have not known or heard of its cures, and if they
do not hear it more warmly praised than any other medi
cine, don’t buy it.
New York, August2s,lßl6.
Messrs. Wyatt &. Ketchum : Gents—For several, years
past I have been troubled with Piles, a very costive
state of the bowels, indigestion and weakness of the sy s
tem. But my complaint not being so severe as to disable
me from business, and a dread I nad of physicians and
I patent medicines, that until this spring I never used any
medicine or applied to a physician for relief—the Tiles
then being so severe that 1 allowed several operations
to be performed, without any benefit. Determined altft-
I this to try other means, I read an advertisement oi a cure
1 guaranteed bv the use of Dr. Upham’s Electuary. 1 pur
| chased three boxes at your store, and from tho use of
which I found myself entirely cured of the Piles, and
my health much improved. 1 remain, sirs, your much
indebted friend, EZRA DIBBLE,
197 Broadway, up stairs.
J. J. Morrison, Esq., of the city of New York, in a let- !
I ter to the proprietor, says, “ I have suffered most excru- I
ciating agoi-iy from the most painful oi all diseases. I lies. I
' 1 have tried various nostrums, scientific, unscientific, i
and ultra-scientific, without the least benefit. By the
use of your inestimable Electuary 1 have obtained per
manent relief; and to my certain knowledge, it has i
effected certain cures in more than twenty cases of the j
same complaint. From personal experience, and ob
servation of its effects on others, I believe that your i
Electuary may be justly regarded as a specific or certain <
cure for this very prevalent and distressing complaint.”
From the Tribune. j
i Wc arc not in the habit of recommending Patent Modi- •
; cines, but in diseases like that of Piles we take pleasure
in doing so, and advise whoever may be unfortunately
suffering under its influence, to use Dr. Upham’s Vegf.-
, table Electuary, an internal medicine highly popular,
i and also particularly adapted lor all diseases found in
| conjunction with the Piles.
From the Rahway Republican. , , i
Dr. Upham’s Pile Electuary may be considered the |
best remedy now known for that truly distressing com- j
plaint, the Piles. Wc have known it lo cure in several |
cases where almost every thing heard of was used to no ;
good effect. We advise all persons subject to the Piles
to lose no time, but at once make a trial oi this invalu-|
able remedy. It is warranted to cure. , ri .j
Sold, wholesale and retail, by \V 1 -vl I &. KE PCHUM, J
121 Fulton street; at retail by Dr. A. Upham, 196 Bowery: i
Ring, cor. Broadway and John, N.Y.; Chas. Steen, 118,
and Mrs .Hayes, 139 Fulton street, Brooklyn. Price §1 a |
box.
ALLEBASI’S FAMILY MEDICINES, sold wholesale i
and retail, by Wyatt k Ketcham, as above.
SOMETHING MORE PR ECIOUS THAN GOLD.
most superior ANTI-BILIOUS PILL now in the
JL market, and which arc creating so much excitement i
and are so greedily swallowed by the BILIOUS, are Dr. i
Charles A. Van Zandt’s r ■ , _
ANTI-BILIOUS HEALTH RESTORATIVE PILLS. !
They cure safely and certainly, without preventing 1
the patient from attending to his business, and are the :
only sure remedy of BILIOUSNESS and
ALL ITS ATTENDANT PLAGUES,
ever placed before the people. They open the pores, !
cleanse the stomach, restore the biliary ducts to health
ful operation, and perform miracles in the way of pre- >
serving health, and preventing the spread of dangerous
maladies. This invaluable medicine will also correct a
depraved appetite, strengthens the nerves or any other |
debilitated part of the system, remove those dull head- .
aches which are premonitory of Inver Complaints, and i
generally accomplish what it takes
DOZENS OF OTHER MEDICINES TO DO.
All this is performed through a concise knowledge of
one plain fact, viz : that there is but ONE CAUSE for
troubles of this kind, and that a medicine so made as to
strike at the root of this cause, must of a necessity
ANNIHILATE AND DISSIPATE
all its subsequent results, which medical incompetency
has so badly treated. . ,
Ves—BILIOUSNESS involves an infinity of disorders,
all of which render life a curse and death a relief. Bil
iousness is simply a manifestation oi disease of the
Liver, and if not taken
will eventually send the sufferer to *' that bourne from
whence no traveller returns.” Let a bilious affection
have sway, and it will end iii induration or abcess of the
liver, producing, as it commits its
1 SECRET AND INSIDIOUS
ravages. Dyspepsia, Gout, Epilepsy, Heart disease, in
ternal disorders of all kinds, foul stomach, Headaches,
Mania, Hvpochoudria, Internal Spasms aud Strictures,
Hysterica, Shortness of Breath, Mucous Expectorations,
Pains in the Breast, Dry Coughs, Sore Throat, Dropsy.
Apoplexy, all species of wasting fevers, capricious ap
petite, or loss of it; Scurvy. Chlorosis, Jaundice, Neu
ralgia, Palpitations, severe Costiveness, and an hundred
other fearful complaints which are too numerous to
mention. We can prove to anybody’s satisfaction that
these pills will completely renovate the humane frame,
C UREPERMANENTLY
all these ills by driving away every improper condition
of the bile and liver..
BILIOUSNESS being produced by a hot climate, by a
changeable atmosphere, .by damps and logs, this medi
cine, unequalled us it is. is just the thing for
THE WEST,
Where men ore exposed to all the causes and effects of
Bile:—to
THE SOUTH,
Where Liver Complaints seems to be epidemical:
TO THE SEA,
When an excellent Cathartic is invariably the Preserver
of Life and Happiness.
Let no one suffer hereafter, but buy Dr. Van Zandts
Anti-Bilious, Health Restorative. Pills, and be strong, and
menially as well as physically vigorous. The sedentary
want it, and can procure
NOTHING BETTER.
In short all the virtues of the pharmaccepia are com
prised in these little pellets of life.
[T7"No family should be without them.«£j]
Sold. Wholesale and Retail, by Wyatt & Ketcham,
121 Fulton street; Geo. O. Gunn, 311 Blecker street; E.
M. Guion, 127 Bowery, N. ¥.; Mrs. Hays, 139 Fulton st.;
W. A. Van Zandt, corner Smith and Dean st., Brooklyn;
and by druggists generally throughout the United States.
Price 25 Cents a Box.
SEAMAN & MUIR,
NO. 3.21 BROADWAY.
HAVE JUST OPENED, received by last arrivals, a
full assortment of new style FANCY DRESS GOODS,
some of which arc very beautiful, and have never before
been offered in this market. Their assortment is now
complete, and consists in part of
SILK TISSUES, entire new style, and very rich.
GAZE DE LUXOR—GRENADINES and PALMY
RIENNE, new styles of Dress Goods.
FIL & FOIL DE CHEVRE in every variety.
BRILLIANTES, BAREGES, PRINTED CAMBRICS,
and LAWNS. .
EMBROIDERED CANTON CRAPE SHAWLS, from I
low priced to as rich as any in the country.
INDIA and PARIS SILKS, a full assortment.
MOURNING GOODS, PLAIN GOODS FOR FRIENDS, [
LACES and EMBROIDERIES, PARIS NOUVEAN- j
TES, &c., &c. j
ANALYTICO MEDICAL INSTITUTE.
NO. 126 BROADWAY.
DR. J. CLAWSON KELLY, will be in attendance at j
his office in the above Institute, for consultation with |
the sick, during MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY ’
and THURSDA Y, the 19th, 20th, 21st and 22d of April.
ADVICE IN ALL CASES GRATUITOUS.
The evil effects of the lancet and mercury, are obvious j
to every person possessing the least spark of intelli
gence’- and it would seem, from the obstinate 1 manner j
which tho practice is persevered in, that the chief do
st "-n of the Legalized Profession, was either to cure
every disease, solely by bleeding and mercury, or else
destroy tfie patient. Thus, such diseases as Cancer,
Consumption. Scrofula, Dropsy, Salt Rheum, &c., are
pronounced incurable by them, because, instead oi be
ing benelitted by their treatment, the disease is.aggra
vated ; and should a benevolent individual, pitying the
afflictions of his f'llow creatures, seek to discover some
new method of treatment, by which to alleviate their
sufferings, the whole force of the Legalized Profession
is arrayed against him, and he is generously named a
quack. Shame oh such ungrateful, selfish beings ’
We all know that the popular remedy in inflamma
tion of the brain, is bleeding and mercury—in fevers,
bleeding and mercury—in inflammation of the lungs,
bleeding and mercury—in lumbago, bleeding and mer
cury—in rheumatism, and gout, bleeding and mercury—
ill consumption, bleeding and mercury—in dropsy,
bleeding, mercury, and tapping—and, in fact, the sole
remedy for almost all diseases, is bleeding and mercury.
What a most horrible practice I’. Of two hundred and
two cases published by Abercrombie, on Diseases of the
brain and Spinal Marrow, but twenty recovered, cured
they were not; the recovery was more owing to their
constitution, than the blood lost, or the mercury poured
into them. Fellow countrymen ! open your eyes to
these pernicious practices, and encourage them no
longer.
TYPE AT REDUCED PRICES.
rp YPES and oil other Printing materials, manufactured
JL at Conner’s United States Type and Stereotype
Foundry, corner of Ann and Nassau streets, New York,
can be had at 18 per cent, deduction from old prices.
The undersigned respectfully inform the old patrons
of the Type and Stereotype Foundry formerly known
as James Conner’s, and more recently as Conner &
Cooke’s, aud the public in general, that they are pre
pared to execute orders for Printing Types. Presses,
Chases, Cases, Imposing Stones, Ink, frames, and every
other article necessary to form complete Printing Estab
lishments, on as favorable terms and of as good a quality
as any other establishment in the United States.
Borders, Cuts, Brass Rule, aud all other articles manu
factured at this establishment, at the same reduced
rates. New articles got up to order, on being furnished
with patterns.
The Type cast al this establishment is, both in the
' style of lace and the material of which it is made, par
ticularly adapted fbr servibe in newspaper printing.
New York, 1817. JAS. CONNER & SON. j
[("Z" The Type on which this paper is printed was
cast at the above Foundry.
WESTCHESTER HOUSE.
H 8 BOWERY, CORNER BROOME ST., N. Y.
rpHE Proprietors of tho Westchester House, are pre
jl pared to make engagements for permanent or tran
sient boarders. The central location of the house,
makes it easy of access cither from the rivers or by the
Harlem Rail Road passing immediately by the door,
rhe lodging rooms are airy and comfortable ; the table
furnished liberally from the best in the market, and in
addition, for those who prefer it, a Restaurant Room
with every delicacy, is open from 6 A. M. to 12 J’. M.
The Bar is also stocked with most superior Liquors and
Segars. The terms very moderate and several of the
rooms to Let without board.
C. 8. k A. M. D. MATHEWS.
NEW SEED WHEAT AMD OATS.
IMPORTATION OF NEW VARIETIES OF AGRICULTURAL SEEDS :
FROM ENGLAND.
< 1 WILSON begs to inform Agriculturalists that he ;
• has imported the following named seeds, the '
varieties of which arc of improved kinds, and genuine {
stock. He having had thirty years experience in farm- '
ing, enables him to recommend confidently the Tarta- |
rian Oats and Talavera Wheat, the former often yielding
120 bushels per acre, and the latter, from purity of color
and boldness of sample, commands a higher price than
any other in the European markets. Any further infor
mation as to the quality of any of the other articles
mentioned, or inode of culture, will be given by him
upon application at 15? William street, opposite the
Dutch Reformed Church, New York.
Spring Tares, Red Drumhead Cabbage,
White Tartarian Oats, Long Red do
Black do do Perrenial Ray Grass,
Hopetown do Evergreen do do
Australian Wheat, Italian do do
Yellow Rutabaga, Cocksfoot do
Purple do Mixed Meadow do
White Norfolk Turnip, White Dutch Clover,
Yell Globe Mangoldwurzel Lugerne,
Large Drumhead Cabbage, Triiblium in Carnatum.
i GARDNERS INIMITABLE LIQUID HAIR DYE,
ANEW and extraordinary discovery, which ins tan- |
taneously changes the color of the hair to a beauti- !
I ful brown or black, without injury to the hair or skin.
This invaluable dye is entirely free from the numer
ous objections to all other dyes heretofore in use, and
has never failed in a single instance of complete suc
cess, when properly applied.
To prevent imposition and fraud, each direction will
bear the signature of the inventor, R. G. GARDNER.
To be-had wholesale and retail at his Wig, Curl and
Perfumery Store, 91 Canal street ; also of Henry John
son, comer of Broadway and Chambers street; A. B. it
D. Sands, 100 Fulton, corner of AVilliam street; T. "Wil
liams, Newark, N. J.
GARDNERS GENUINE CIRCASSIAN CREAM,
T7l OR. preserving, strengthening and beautifying the
J- hair—giving it a line dark lustre, and rendering it as
soft as silk. This article has been held in high esteem
for the last thirty years, both in the old and new world,
and possesses merits w hich must eventually place it far
beyond the reach of all competition.
A single trial of this article must convince the most
skeptical of its superiority overall others—particularly
for the ladies’ toilet is it recommended—producing a
lustre and brilliancy never before attained.
To be had, wholesale and retail, at his Wig, Curl, and
Perfumery Store, 91 Canal street, N. Y.
, , GARDNER, Proprietor.
Also for sale by Henry Johnson, druggist anef chemist,
corner Broadway and Chambers street.
ADAMS’ FANCY BAZAAR,
198 CHATHAM SQUARE, NEW YORK.
(Established 1839 at 121 Chatham Street.)
WILLIAM ADAMS,
Dealer in every description of Gold, Gilt and Plated
Jewelry, Gold, Silver, and Plated Watches ;
ALSO, EVERY DESCRIPTION OF
French Accordions, Toys, Fancy Goods, Pocket
Cutlery, &c. &c- &c.
PLEASE kOT TO FORGET THE NAME AND NUMBER,
ADAMS’ FANCY BAZAAR, ’
1?$ fr-WR mu JJmav,
IN PRESS, AND WILL SOON BE PUBLISHED, j
BY
WILLIAMS BROTHERS,
21 Anu St., New York, an ,i 22, Congress St., Boston:
ALEXANDRE DUMAS’
CELEBRATED ROMANCE,
the memoirs of a physician.
Illustrated by John Gilbert, Esq.
THE KNIGHT OF MAULEON,
BV THE SAME FAMOUS AUTHOR.
Profusely Illustrated.
A NEW FOREST ROMANCE.
UNTITLED
OTTAWAH;
THE LAST CHIEF OF THE RED INDIANS OF
N E WFOUNDLAND.
Beautifully Illustrated.
THE PARRICIDE ;
OR, Tin: YOUTH’S CAREER of crime.
BY THE AUTHOR OF
“ L I F FIN LONDON, ”
Handsomely Illustrated.
CHAPMAN'S AMERICAN DRAWING-BOOK
THE first number of this Drawing Book, which will
comprise tho Primary Lessons and a pbrHon of the
momentary par of the work, is now passin" through
ofUv SS ’-rhoiVo 1 \ I,robabl r^ pu - bl i shed ®
ot May. rhe great amount of artistical labor bestowed
upon this part of the work has delaved tho publication
longer than was anticipated when it was‘ first announc
viL J l? lllus J r “t:ons and embellishments arc far sune
and in the couu ?y.
and as a work oi art, independent of its merits as a
sffe ®Gse k ?blJXrnr« nq ? ost i io " ably '-'""l'nau'l a largo
sale, inose, therefore, who desire to secure
EARLY IMPRESSIONS FROM THE PLATES
P l Ve% h o o StsJniuh t or s Wer Cr Slyle
ID" Those put up in paper covers can be sent bv mail
J - * KEDFIKLD, Clinton llall
j WILLIAMS BROTHERS, til ANN STREET
HAVE JUST PUBLISHED,
! II f§ E =j I^IS STSOF ST - °“ By
T ByJ S H R Ingraham. ; °‘' The Heroi " e of lhc Kennebec.
Or The Adventures of a New England
Boy, Launched upon J>jfc. Two parts 25 cents each
G D?S?s'f' 5 0 r i ! , e C 11 tJ.“ ntCr ° f the We of By -'lex
-1 oAa WaYcVrma^cn 0 b'”alJx. DumSyS cents Ve " tUl ' eS
raui Fa '- ai ’ tra ‘> aiat ? d
CLPTa'in^PAUI 1 °b3 i>° Bold Slnu S?lcr, 25 cents.
ACTE OF COP vrfr 25 conts '
0D“ For sale at all Book Sh!!?”"' “cents.
~ NEW LAW BOOKS. "
V O v o i~ , lsandf<wd J s°ci !< ’ New Y 2 rk Supreme Court-
Vol.t U S Spurts, New York- :
&}• court - ■
Vni Lommon Law Reports entire
vS’l fcSfe i S by j? Kxchequer ’llep'orts.
Reports, vol. 4, and Re'S
Vnl' 2 > L_ ?M aine Reports, Shepley, vol. It
1816 ’ 1 ■ 8 of i\orth Carolina Reports,
Vni' J° "7v a ) vs lh ? States.
Vol fU&SSt £!^s Kcports ' s - Carolina -
Kaw.
Vo ' 5'~ 1 A I pL U,hrc >p S Reports, Tennessee.
'oi. j.—Arkansas Reports, bv A Pike
ni ? c ’ s Law Compendiunr
M harton s American Law, Criminal
Barbour s American Criminal Treatise
vvhnoJ ea^ S r/- eßtiniou Y of the Evangelists
and America tolsg' 01 th ° of Nations in Europe
and conected. llteni:l “ ollal Law ’ tbird revised I
Martial bv John (Y’RHoV < ie Pr ? c .tice of Courts
States. Army ° Bucn ’ in the United
of pfe l 6edenti haucery Praclice ’ 2 "'ith a collection
d p“cedJf. S ts O, uX
vol ° eorgia -
cXAofNewloK PracUcc ’ third Supreme
PnfVfe?? 8 / p a.ley’s Agency, American Notes.
V - l t- o| o niou Law Index, vol. I to 47 inclusive
to 12 fnclusivc 01 NCW JJampsh H - e Reports,' vols. 1
edition^ in th ° NCW York Co,lv ention, Atlas and Argus
Vol. IL—Green’s < hanccry Report. New lersev
Dayton’s Law ol Surrogates, ExeciloY etc
Revised Statutes of New Jersey, isizY ’
aiid h all b the e ’n'ew h st a ti e, n ral » ssortl “entof Law Books,
Law Booksellers and Publishers.
No. m Nassau street.
JUST PUBLISHED,
THE MILLER OF MARTIGNE.
A ROMANCE.
Bill ENU. Y WILL IA M HERB FR T
lhe Authorol “.Marmaduke Wyvil,”“The Villa~c Inn ”
Cromwell,” “ The Brothers,” otc.
Brice 25 Cents.
his I s & work of surpassing interest and ;<•
Wyr'il^rlbu^ 6 “ R ° ma “ bJllim.SlS
The" -
and will be read with an e<?ual amount ’of^L 5 , s “,«-
scenes are laid in the exciting events of the M tS
zann, aud in all their plots aiid dcSfe- aw ot M 1
-TrSe%Xn ara ° ter - We prediel f <>rit™ cxtenlifo sale’
beautifully told talc'under tlwaboro tltlo 1 f ' ,, —nioßt
from tho p’en of us
good things than wo have time to eiiumei-aw wf 1 mol m
give an extract, but we have no snace for ii' Vo J v ' ,uld
second thoughts all our readers ought to have thoVISS?
n a lnerc I»otaUon.-Spirit of the 'llnls
Indeed, there can be m, doubt that if Mr a Or ?
writers ol romance.-Sat. I'mpoiiSin European
For sale of the bookstore of
RICHARDS & CO., Ann street.
8 AND 8U .M MeTTgOODS
CLOTHING WAREHOUSE
102 FULTON STREET-THE OLD STAND
Second block oast of Broadwav
• TKR?°» Site the old North Dutek Church.)
”u°i-OID h STOCK and 000 “°,' nicaL Hay ing sold oil aU
A NEW
Dress and Frock Coats, from Sfimtosman
Office Coats, •• SLOO to $16,00
The 811011 Skirt Frock ■' 2,MtOs7 ’ M
and Shad Coat, irom c n -<>
Summer Coats, from
Fancy Cass, and Plain Black Pants, from s■> 6 o to
Fancy Linen, Shepherd’s Plaid, and .-very ' "°°
description of summer stulls, from slooto SO 50
Vests of every stylo and description of ’ °
Al’“ a 'large aXtamfr of CIX Cassime?" ’1
,MdC l ° “’ ‘ 0
tbSSS 102 a ‘ loo ‘’
D. P. SMITH, formerly,
AV. H. Degroot &Co.
OCULIST.
29 Greenwich St., near thf. Battery, N. Y.
D E X?nm?nlH CJ i c,JIS L vc aitentioi J to diseases of the
tfoft IS 1 h r Surgery, and assures the public
which tho hHmnVJk an ‘- onff s f- th ? nuin<? r° u s diseases to
w lc 1 i J lunlQn is subject, anv disorders of that
< w> e ’. ai i 1 c . all,l ' r ' t , b . e essentially relieved or entirely
cuied bj kqn, in most instances, without .surgical opera
iXi™!ii"ice m- pa < in’ atlCUt ’ S b ° hlg sub j« cted «° '"ueh
souablMerms 08 forsale ’ wl <ich "ill be inserted on rea-
Office hours, from 0 A. M. to 1 o’clock P M after
which he will visit out door patients. ’
„.i,i r ? mplllct eontaiuing remarks on diseases of the eye,
ri.. . ou ? lns ,lances ol great cures effected by Dr.
Wheeler s mode ot treatment, can be had, gratuitously
atlus residence, or the sanie will be forwarded to any
one making application to him by letter, post paid J
SWEET'S REFRESH M ENTS ALO O nT" 7 ”
NO. a FULTON STREET.
rpilE undersigned having recently taken the above
J- premises, tormerly occupied by the Pearsalls.
" hile leturiimg his thanks for the public support thus
far received, would respectfully call the attention ol
icsiuents and strangers to the additional inducements
held out to sectire their patronage. Though his prices
are as low as at any other establishment in the. city, his
ariangemeuts are such as at all times to provide the
v(jry best the season and markets afford.
The commodious dining and lodging appartments have
been completely refitted, and for the convenience of
room^ eiS ' ia!i added a neat reading and smoking
BILL OF FARE.
DINNER.
Roast Beef r.d Boiled Mutton, Caper
Roast Lamb, Gd Sauce, i«
Roust Veal, Gd Oyster Pie, i' s
Roast Potk, ed Chicken Fricasee, is
Corned Beef, Gd Fried Oysters, 2a
Corned Ham, Gd Stewed Oysters, Is
Corned Pork, G< Raw Oysters, is
Boiled Hain, 6d Sirloin Steak, is
Pork and Beans, Gd Rump Steak, is
6( l Tenderloin'Steak, ls6d
Beet Steak 1 ie, Gd Porter House Steak, ,?s
Ham and Eggs, isfiff
Boiled Mutton, plain 6d Mutton Chop, is
Lamb Pie, Gd Lamb Chop. • is
Veal Pie, 6d Veal Cutlets,
Roast lurkey, Gd Broiled Chicken, 2s
Roast Goose, Is Beef Steak & Onions, Is6d
Ivoast Duck, Is Calves Head, is
Roast Chicken, Is Fish Chowder, is
Chicken Pie. is Bread and Butter, sd
Boiled/lurkey, Oyster Extra Bread, 3d
Sauce, is Extra Vegetables, 3d
DESSERT.
Plum Pudding, Gd Craberry Sauce, 3d
£uet do Gd Apple Flitters, 6d
Bread do (>d Apple Dumplings, Gd
lapioca do Gd Cranberry Pie 6d
Indian do Gd Apple . do’ ed
Rice do Gd Mince do 6d
Sago do Gd Plum do Gd
Macaroni 6d Peach do 6d
Rice and Milk. 9d Custard do 6d
; Bread and Milk, 9d Pumpkin do 6d
BKEAKFAST AND TEA.
Beefsteak, 6d Fish Balls, r,d
Pork Steak, Gd Broiled Mackerel, Gd
Mutton (.hop, Gd Broiled Ham, jg
},eal Cutlets, Gd Buckwheat Cakes, Gd
Fried Liver, Gd Indian Cakos, nd
Fried lush, Gd Hot Rolls, g
Fried Eels, 6d Eztra Bread, 3 d
F ried Clams; Gd Tea.
Fried Tripe, Gd Coffee,
Fried Sausages, Gd Eggs, each, 3d
Fried Shad, Gd Omelet, is
Boarding and Lodging by the day or week.
Open on Sunday.
NOTELS AND STEAMBOATS*.'
THE SUBSCRIBER has constantly on hand a
large assortment of
WHITFz ENGLISH STONE WARE,
of a superior quality ; also, the dark blue ; with a large
assortment of GLASS, various qualities
AT THE LOWEST CITY PRICES.
WARE LOANED in large quantities, at the shortest
notice.
PUNCH BOWLS, all sizes.
ENGLISH AND FRENCH CHINA on hand.
VASES and CLOCK SHADES, of various sizes.
F. HADLEY, 209 GREENWICH STREET,
between Vesey and Barclay sts.
tty” SWEENY’S EATING HOUSE,’ No. 11 Ann St.-
This Saloon has long enjoyed an unrivalled reputation
for-the excellence, cheapness, variety of its dishes.
Long experience and attention to the wants of its numer
ous customers has rendered it a favorite place of resort.
I The public are invited to cpjl judge jbr themselves.
N S- Open on
: AMUSEMENTS.
PARK THEATRE.
MONDAY EVENING, April loth, the performance
will commence with
■ FAZlO.—Giraldi Fazio, Mr. Wheatley ; Duke, Stark ;
i Bartolo, Barry; Biaca, Mrs. Mason; Countess Aldabella,
I Abbott; Clara, Miss Hall.
To conclude with
i THE EYTON BOY.—CoI. Curry, Mr. G. Andrews ;
; Captain Popham, Barret; Fanny. Mrs. Hunt.
I Doors open at quarter to 7 o’clock, and the Curtain
I will rise at a quarter past 7 o’clock.
Boxes, SI; Pit, 50 Cents ; Gallery, 25 Cents.
BOWERY THEATRE.
MONDAY EVENING, April 19th, the performance
will commence with
LOVE. —Huon, Mr. Clarke ; Duke, Vac-he ; Nicholas,
Keene; Countess. Mrs. Shaw; Empress, Madison; Chris
tina, Sergeant; Catherine, Booth.
To conclude with
WALLACE.—WaIIace, Mr. Neafie ; Monteith, Booth ;
Kirkpatrick. Clarke ; Lady Helen Mar, Mrs. Jordan ;
, Marian, Madison ; Madeline, Broadley.
Doors open at 6 1-2 o’clock—Performance commence at
7 o’clock.
Boxes, 25 cents ; Pit and Gallery 12 1-2 cents.
CHATHAM THEATRE.
MONDAY EVENING, April 19th, the performance
will commence with
GREEN MOUNTAIN BOY.—Jedediah Homebred,
Yankee Hill; Sandfield, Mr. Rea; Joe Shakespeare,
Winans ; Ellen Tompkins, Miss Hildreth ; Miss Squea
mish, Mrs. La Forest.
To be followed by
CUT AND <’-()ME AGAlN.—Return Strong, Mr. Hill;
Maj. Tucker, Greene ; Mrs. Grosbeak, Mrs. Melville.
To conclude with
THE AVENGER.—Avenger, Mr. Marshall; Alessan
dro, Fenno; Bella, Mrs. LaForest; Valentina, Miss
Hildreth.
i Doors open at half-past 6 o’clock. Perfornrancc to com
j me nee at 7o’clock, precisely.
j Box 25 cents ; Pit, 12 1-2 cents ; Private Boxes 50 cents.
BOWERY AMPHITHEATRE.
BENEFIT OF W. H. KEMP.
MONDAY EVENING. April 19th, the performance
will commence with
Airs. AYM AR, as the Syren of the Scarf.
Miss JESSELVNE in a new Pas Soul.
NIXON and his talented children.
Mr. C ARROLL and Miss MADIGAN, in a double act
ol Horsemanship.
great principal act.
I,IC cw York Favorite Clown.
Mr. KEMPS wonderful performance on the Great
Globe, as folly guiding the world.
Concluding with
THE IDLE APPRENTICE.-Pegs, AV. 11. Kemp ; Jack
Neptune, Madigan ; Polly Mayfly, Mrs. Ayniar.
Doors open at 7 o’clock—Performance will commence
at 7 1-2 o’clock- Boxes, 25 cents ; Pit, 12 1-2 cents.
AMERICAN MUSEUM.
■ E this " -eck - commei ‘ cill » ° n
j Splendid Exhibitions and Performances every afternoon
at 3 o'clock, and every evening at 7 1-2.
liie enthusiastic reception which continues to be
given to the magnificent and transcendantly beautiful
■ Moving Dio-Panoramic Representation of
THE FUNERAL OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE!
Encourages the manager to continue its exhibition
i another week.
; It will be exhibited every afternoon and evening this
week at 3 and half-past 7 o’clock, in conjunction with
I other splendid entertainments.
z , Last Week but one of
i GREAT WESTERN, the Yankee Comedian.
Last Week but one of the Popular
ETHIOPIAN MINSTRELS OR SERENADERS,
j ~ LIVING ORANG OUTANG,
Also engaged for one week longer,
MISSES WHEELER and JULLfEN.
1 .THUMB’S CARRIAGE, with one
I of his Ponies and their Harness.
i TWO M ONSTER SNAKES, 20 Feet Long.
I WAX MODEL OF THE HITMAN BOD?', to be seen
i at all hours at an extra charge of one .shilling.
; M ADAM ROCK WELL, the Fortune Tellcw.
Admission, 25 cents ; children under 10,1? 1-2 cents.
Ml NERVI ROOMS’
106 BROADWAY.
'VI ALEXANDER, the Great Necromancer from
L’A Pans, will appear m his celebrated
MYST'ERIpb'S AND ORIENTAL SOIREES,
on MONDAY, April 19th, and every evening during the
: week, at his Magnificent
.TEMPLE OF ENCHANTMENT.
! r or. particulars, see the Bills. Prices of Admission—
; 1 arquette 50 cents ; Saloon 25 cents.
Children accompanied by their parents, half-nricc.—
! Doors open at half-past 6—Commence at half-past 7
; o clock.
NIBLO’S GARDEN LOT, THIS EVENING.
A FREE EXHIBITION 7 of CRUTCH ELL’S SOLAR
GAS, every Evening for ten nights, from 8 till 10
! o’clock. Plus gas is now being introduced into the
i Capitol and Public Buildings at AV ashington, and the
I City of Lexington, Ky. There are now upwards of 60
I Steamboats, Churches, Dwellingsand Public Buildings
’ illuminated by this light. Reference is made to the fol
lowing: Steamboats on tne Ohio and Mississippi Riv
ers—Magnetia, Bulletin, Belle, Creole, Pike No 7 and 8
and H others. Cincinnati—Rev. J. L. Brooks, Rector of
Christ Church ; this church is lighted by a single bur
ner from the ceilingi Presbyterian Tabernacle, do;
Broadway Hotel; Do Exchangd ; Mm. Hotel; M. &T.
C. Day, Granite Building ; Fulton Manufacturing Com
pany ; Messrs. Longwood & Son, residences ; 8. K.
Shone be rger Esq., do ; J. Strotter, Esq., do ; J. Lock
wood, Esq., do. Globe Mills, Covington. Ky. United
States Hotel, Wheeling, Va. .Methodist Church, Allo
galiany, Pa. H. Tiffany, Esq., Baltimore, residence,
cole man’s Hotel, Washington City. Morris Fasker,
Morris factory, Fhila. Several ol the above parties
have hud their buildings lighted up by Coal and Rosin
Gas, and have abandoned those sources for the Salor
Gas, this being found cheaper, cleaner and more suited
to health, in two instances the parties had coal at their
own doors.
JOHN 8. KIRVING, Sole Agent for the State of New
York, has an apparatus in operation in Crosby Street,
• between Prince and Houston street, in the rear of
; Niblos Lot, were he will be pleased to show the same
to any person, from 10 A..M. till 5 P. M. Also, certificates
ol those who are now using the same, in his possession
I will satisfy the most sceptical.
THE ANATOMICAL MUSEUM?
! QQQ BOWERY, is now open daily from 8 A. M-, to 10
10 P. M., and on AVednesday exclusively for
ladie ■ till dark. It contains over 200 NATURA L AV AX
AND PLASTER MODELS, of the various parts of the
human body, among which a splendid ANATOMICAL
VENUS, containing the various organs.
ADMITTANCE 25 CENTS.
DR. HASSELL continues successfully to prescribe
lor patients laboring under various Chronic Diseases,
at his office in the Museum, every afternoon and even
ing, and devotes the morning to visit patients at their
own residences.
FISTULA, as usual, cured without an operation.
if/ ’ DR. HASSELL also keeps a complete supply ol
all Dr Beach's celebrated medicines and medicine books.
THERE IS NO REAL OCCASIOn’fOR’SICKNESS?
THE VIS MEDICATRIX NATUR/E
EXPLAINED.
The human constitution is so admirably formed, that,
disease and miscry are almost invariably chargeable to
us—riot to nature ; and it is universally admitted by the
great authorities in medicine, that most cures are effect*
cd, not b.y the actual art of the physician, but by his
ability to follow or assist that beautiful and ever-vigilant
principle in the body to which the name of Vis Medi
catrix Naturje has long been given. Now, the gene
ral source of disease is the introduction into the blood,
through the faulty digestion of the food, of various im
purities—and, the general obstacle to the free operation
of th;; health-preserving power, is, DERANGEMENT
OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION and CONSTIPA
TION. That such a power as this existed in the human
body has long been known, and that was all. Dr. Ralph,
by close study and application to this subject during an
extensive practice of nearly forty years, has succeeded
in discovering accurately and perfectly the true nature
and mode of action of this Health power, and also a
medicinal compound which would operate in perfect
agreement with it.
DR. RALPH’S PILLS,
therefore, act with Nature—assist her not only in Re
moving Disease, but in Maintaining Health. Hence,
it is truly declared, “they are founded on the only
principle in Nature, on which an universal remedy
can be safely and conscientiously recommended to the
World.”
One box—even a single dose will establish their supe
riority.
[C7 J REMEMBER—a single dose, acting so gently that
the person forgets he has taken medicine, will at once
and positively avert a threatened disease, and leave a
feeling of ease and serenity that can follow no other. A
gentleman under similar circumstances, lately made use
of the following words to express this feeling—he said
he felt as if he had taken
“ A NEW LEASE OF HIS LIFE.”
Sold in Boxes at 25 Cents, and in Family Packages at
sl, in which is much saving of expense. The directions
with each box arc full of useful information, which no
one who values health should be without: much of it
is especially to Females and
OCz 37 Henry Johnson, Broadway, corner of Chambers
street; John B. Dodd, 771 Broadway, corner of Ninth
street; J. &I. Coddington 303 Hudson corner Spring st.:
A. L. Winship, (Sand’s) East Broadway, corner Market
street: Dr. Lewis, (Badeau’s) 260 Bowery.
HILL’S INFALLIBLE ONGUENT,
for regenerating and beautifying the hair, effec
tually eradicating pityriasis or dandruff, pre
venting GREY HAIRS, AND REMEDYING ALL OTHER
DISEASES OF THE SCALP AND HAIR,
Is now irrevocably fixed in the public mind as being
eminently superior to all others now in use, and no Gen
tleman’s or Ladies’ toilet is complete without the On
guent, be the Hair falling out or not; but read for your
self. Ihe following arc a few of innumerable testimo
nials which have been given by Physicians and others
m all cases bearing the residence ol the giver, to show
the genuineness ol the same. Sold, wholesale and retail
at the Principal office, No. 13 Nassau street, and by the
principal Drug and Fancy Stores in the U. S.. where will
be found certificates of Agency signed by Wm. Hill the
originator, to avoid counterfeits.
New York, April Blh. 1816.
Having derived great benefit from the use of Hill's On
guent, I consider it a duty 1 owe the community to testify
to its merits. One member of my family has for a long
time been afflicted with the falling off of the Hair but
after having used two boxes of the Onguent it has en
tirely restored her hair ; it also eradicates Dandruff and
keeps the hair moist.
Dr. S. R. HARRIS, No. 7 Greenwich st.
Mr. Win. Hill-This is to certify that William Hili’*
Onguent is the best preparation I have ever used for re
moving Dandruff and Restoring the Hair to its healthy
state. A. FOLLIN, M. D. Globe Hotel, N. Y.
.. Al- „■>, c- N« w York, March 18, IMS.
Mr. M in. Hill—Dear Sir—Six months ago 1 was quite
bald, my hair having fallen oft'from causes natural to
my family, of which different members became so before
me. 1 take jpleaure now in stating that my hair is nearly
restored to its former thickness by the use of a few boxes
ol your Onguent. With sincere thanks for the same, J
remain yours truly,
ISRAEL SACKETT, No. 1 Nassau st.
Mr. AVilliairi Hill—Sir—Your infallible Onguent has
been of inestimable benefit in restoring my hair from a
decayed state to that of health, it also keeps the hair
more soft and glossy than any I have ever used.
Yours &c , JOHN MAGOVERN,
New I ork, April 3,1816.N0. 10 Varick at.
INTERESTING TO EYERY FEMALE.
All Diseases and Complaints peculiar to the Female Sex.
yield to the powerful influence of
DR. IL LE REE'S
PERSIAN FEMALE VEGETABLE PILLS.
The Persian Female Vegetable Pills, arc the only sure,
safe and efficacious remedy for the cure of those com
plaints which females only are subject to. Free from
all preparations of Mercury, Calomel, Antimony, &c.
but compounded of ingredients of the most intrinsic me
dicinal value, they act effectually upon the whole sys
tem, w ithout injury to the future health of the patient
They give strength for weakness, health for sickness
ease and enjoyment of life for pain and misery. To the
drooping maid, who has long been suffering from the
effects of monthly irregularities, obstructions of the
mensc, unnatural flows, lencorrhcea, fluor albus, &.c
They impart the bright hue of health upon her cheek,
and renew again a sound mind in a sound body.
These Tills arc a certain remedy for Incipient Con
sumption, Indigestion, Nervous Debility, Pain in the
Limbs, Alternate Flushings of Heat, Hysteria, Barren
ness or Sterility, General Weakness. Nausea, Costive
ness, and all the functional diseases of the uterine sys
tem.
READ WHAT PHYSICIANS SAY.
Sir—l have used your “ Persian Female Pills,” in seve
ral cases of Chlorosis, and have found them the best
cmirienagogue and tonic medicine I ever used.
J. POLLOCK. E. D., 133 Green street.
I know the principal ingredients of “ Dr. Le Ree’i
Persian Female Pills,” and can testify that, for theii
peculiar purposes, they cannot be excelled.
SAMUEL F. HOLLY, M.D., 659 Broadway.
Principal Office and Agency, in America, is 91 Hudson
street. Price, 75 cents per box.
This medicine will be carefully packed and forwarded
to any part of the Union.
All letters addressed to Dr. Le Ree, must be post paid
The only authorized Retail Agents are—Dr. Moss, cor
nar Grand and Cannon streets; Dr. A. AV. Gabaudan, 51
Sixth Avenue; 111 Eighth Avenue ; Mrs. Hansell, 167
Division street; C. Ring. 192 Broadway, and Mrs. Hayes,
139 Fulton street, Brooklyn; E. H. Trippc, Newark; A
C. Watson, Rahway.
Sold wholesale and retail by Wyatt &. Ketcham, 121
Fulton stiect; C. Ring, 192 Broadway, N. Y.
If. LE REE, M. D.,91 Hudson street.
DR. POWELL, OCULIST AND AURIST,
Attends to diseases of the eye and ear
and to all imperfections ol vision, from 9 to 1 o'clock,
at his residence and offices, 261 BROADWAY, cornej
of Warren street.
OPHTHALMIA, Stoppage of the TEAR PASSAGE,
CATARACTS, and OPACITIES, effectually removed.
AMAUROSIS treated with great attention and suc
cess.
STRABISMUS, or Squinting, cured in a few minutes.
DEAFNESS, and all dischargess from the car, perma
nently cured.
ARTIFICIAL EYES inserted.
SPECTACLES adapted to every defect.
ROOM'S, furnished or unfurnished, in a beautiful loca
tion near St. John’s Park, to let, by a private family
which does not remove on the Ist of May. References
exchanged. Address P. bo?f 1894 lower Post Office. A
' to i|j Vaseipwt, suitable for g Doctor’s Oflic?-
CITIZENS NEW LINE OF OPPOSITION BOATS
FOR ALBANY,
AND INTERMEDIATE PLACES.
r Fare SI,OO.
Breakfast and Dinner on Board.
The New and Elegant Steamers
ROGER WILLIAMS. Captain A. Degroot, Tuesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays.
METAMORA, Captain T. S. Knight, Mondays, Wednes
days and Fridays.
At half-past Six, A. M. from the Pier foot of Warren
street, touching Hammond street Pier. For passage, or
light freight, apply on board the boats, or to GEORGE
DOBSON, at the office 126 Warren street, corner of West
street.
■%K7 = “ All persons are forbid trusting the above boats on
account of the owners.
A LESSON IN ECONOMY.
rsa DEVOE’S HAT AND- CAP MANUFACTORY,
i (formerly known as the Phoenix Establishment,)
Dutch street, 103 Fulton street.—The pro
prietor of this celebrated establishment is constantly
demonstrating the fact that a beaver hat can be sold for
$3,50, and a moleskin hat for $3, superior to four-fifths,
and equal to the best $5 hats sold in the city or else
where, equal in style, beauty of shape, completeness of
finish, neatness of lining, and every otffer requisite
whatever. This fact is a result of a system which, if
more generally adopted, would put an end to much
ruinous extravagance, upon which so many tradesmen
have made shipwreck of their hopes. The success of
the above Hat and Cap Manufactory proves conclusive
ly that a low rent, the utmost economy in expenditures,
quick sales, for cash, with small profits, can compete
triumphantly with the most glaring and costly estab
lishments of the day, and the sacrifice of no point im
portant or unimportant, in the manufacture of a hat is
necessary to enable the proprietor to warrant a saving
of from $3,50 to $6, per annum, to each of his patrons.
The schedule of prices as below
Ist quality Nutria Hat, $3 50 Ist do Cloth Caps, $1 20
2d “ “ 300 2d “ “ Ino
Ist “ Moleskin, 300 3d “ “ 75
2d “ “ 2 50
In addition to the current Spring style, (a beautiful
article) ho keeps on hand an assortment of different
styles adapted to all peculiarities of form and feature,
and is also prepared to make to order, at short notice.
Hats, Caps, &c-, to any pattern, at 103 Fulton street.
GENTLEMEN’S HATS---SPRING STYLE,
a Are now ready for sale at ROBERTSON’S
PHCENIX HAT AND CAP MANUFACTORY.
No. 89 Fulton street, (between William and Gold.)
The advertiser, some two years since, commenced
business in this street, upon the plan of Large Sales
axd Smaue Profits. The eminent success which has
crowned his efforts to furnish his customers with an
article of the first Quality, and at the lowest price, has
induced him to move from his former contracted estab
lishment to the above much more commodious store.
His prices are still the same, viz :
First quality Nutria Hats, - - - $3 50
Second do do - - - - 3 00
First do Moleskin, .... 350
Second do do r - - - 3 00
Third do do - - - - 250
A liberal deduction from the above prices made to
wholesale dealers.
N. B—The proprietor of this establishment has recent
ly opened a Branch Store at No. 63 Fulton street, Brook
lyn, for the accommodation of his Brooklyn patrons and
the public. ~
THE NEW HAT COMPANY’S
ONE PRICE STORE.
a THE VERY FINEST NUTRIA HAT isgi
That can be made for
THREE DOLLARS.
! THE VERY FINEST MOL ES XI X ,
three: dollars.
XO BECON2) QUALITY—XO SECOND PRICE.
IT?®* The trade supplied with Hat Mirrors.
No. H 8 Tract House, corner of Nassau and Spruce sts.
’GARBANATI, Manager.
“ Show me the man that wears upon his brow
A handsome Beaver, that becomes him well—
And ten to one his hat was bought of Knox.”
not Byron.
KNOX, HATTER,
M NO. 128 FULTON STREET,
las now his new style of Spring
ready for customers. It is pronounced by connoiseurs
to be the ne plus ultra as to beauty, elegance, and
fashion.
SPRING STYLE HATS AND CAPS.
BG. W. BURNHAM, 123 FULTON STREET,
NEW YORK, would respectfully inform the pub
lic generally, and particularly those in want of
Caps, &c., that he has just opened a large and ele
gant assortment of Gentlemen’s and Boys Hats and Caps'
which are manufactured from the best material and in
the most workmanlike manner. He feels warranted in
saying that the style and finish of his Hats and Caps
cannot be surrpassed by any establishment in the city.
Those who will take the trouble to give him a call, can
satisfy themselves.'
027“ No charge for looking at the articles.
HATS , HATS ~, j hats’!Ti
MOPPOSITION IS THE LIFE OF BUSINESS.—
A SINGLE HAT AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
Best Fine Moleskin Hats, - - • $3 no
Second quality,2 50
A serviceable hat,2 00
In manufacturing these hats, no expense or pains will
be spared, that will render them equal to any sold in
the city at from $3 to $5. Our motto is small profits
and quick returns. Country merchants please give
us a call, at No. 17 Park Row, next door to the Park
Theatre, New York.COLLINS He WALLACE.
SPRING STYLES OF HATS AND CAPS.
MThe public are respectfully invited to call and
examine S. R. FOWLER’S Spring Styles, which
for beauty, durability, and cheapness are equal
to any.
Fur and Silk Hats of all qualities, from $2 00 to $4 00
Glazed, Cloth and Silk Velvet Caps, from 37 to 2 50
8. R. FOWLER, 262 Grand street.
WM. BELDEN’S
a HAT, CAP AND SHIRT STORE.—The suoscri
ber has now on hand, and is receiving daily from
D. W. Belden’s factory, 181 Water street, (late John
1 hint & C 0.,) the latest style of Hats, which he is selling
at wholesale and retail, and warrants them to be equal
to any in this city, and at very reduced prices.
He has also, ol his own manufacture, every style of
Shirts, Bosoms and Collars, which he warrants to be of
the quality represented ; at prices that cannot fail to
suit those who may favor him with a call.
FIRST PREMIUM STRAW IIAT MANU
/ :: FACTOR!. 96 Bowery, between Hester
I ; and Grand sts. The advertiser announces
1. -i t 0 la-dies of New York, that he has now
t^lc ln °st fashionable assortment of Hats
f° r season, consisting of French and
English Straw, Neapolitan, Soft Straw,
Tuscan and Fancy Straw, together with
an assortment of Paris Ribbons and Flowers, which he
intends selling as low as any other wholesale or retail
establishment in the city.
He has gone to a great expense in obtaining facilities
for pressing Neapolitan Hats, and was awarded the First
Premium lor superior bleaching, by the Fair of the
American Institute, and was also awarded at the Fair ot
1816, two premiums for superior manufacture of Straw
Goods. All kinds of Straw Goods cleansed and altered.
Braids of different kinds always on hand, and merchants
and milliners supplied.
THOMAS YOUNG, 96 Bowery.
MRS. BLAKE,
TAKES this opportunity to inform her custom
"Vers and the ladies generally .that she has removed
store, 186 Bowery, where she would be happy to
see all her former customers and friends, who are in
want of Millinery or Fancy Goods, and pledges herself
to use every exertion to please them ; she will keep
constantly oh hond, a first rate assortment of Silk Mil
linery and Straw Hats, Ladies Dress Caps, and Head
Dresses. Also, in connection a large assortment of
FANCY GOODS, which they are invited to call and
examine.
[Tt 3 ’ Milliners from the country, will be supplied as
usual with Pattern Bonnets, Caps, &c., &.c.
FINE GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES.
THE subscriber wishes to call the attention of
those who are about purchasing Watches, to his
stock, it being his intention to offer for sale none
but such as will keep correct time. His prices will be
uniform, and the quality of the Watch guaranteed—so
that persons unacquainted with the article they are
purenasing will be secure against imposition. Tke
prices will be as low, if not lower than any other house
in the trade.
Fine Gold and Silver Duplex, Patent Lever, and Lepine
Watcher,
“ “ Guard and Fob Chains.
“ “ Pencils, Bracelets, Cameo Pins, &c.
Gold Watches from S2O upward.
Watches, Clocks and Jewelry, repaired in the best
manner and warranted for a year.
J. Y. SAVAGE, 92 Fulton st.
DIAMOND POINTED PENS.-J. Y. S. continues sell
ing his gold pens at $2 only, pencil included. They are
a capital article, and write with all the freedom and are
vastly superior to the quill.
“TOWNSEND N. UNDERHILL & CO.,
NOS. 13, 20 AND 22 CEDAR STREET, NEW YORK,
WOULD hereby inform their friends and custoriiers
that, in connection with their Brown Sheeting Es
tablishment, they have just completed an additional
room for the sale of
BLEACHED GOODS,
and that, from this time forward, they will constantly
exhibit for sale every variety of
BLEACHED SHEETINGS AND SHIRTINGS,
from 3-1 of a yard to 3 yards wide, and comprising the
very best styles, both heavy and fine. Also, a large sup
ply of smooth yard wide goods, of good quality and low
price, from 6 to 7 cents per yard, according to the price
of the same article m the brown state.
TOWNSEND N. UNDERHILL,
GEORGE W. POWERS.
A CARD.
The establishment, Nos. 18, 20 and 22 Cedar street, is
the first of its kind, and contains the largest assortment
of Brown Sheetings ever exhibited in the United State 6.
J-i and 7-8 Shirtings, from the lowest price to the best
quality manufactured ; 4-1 heavy and light Sheetings of
every description ; also. 9-8.5-1,6-4,9-4,10-1 and 12-4 widths.
TntfBEST HEAVY fh'JLES ALWAYS ON HAND
such as INDIAN HEAD, LAWRENCE C and D, Stark
Mills, Premium No. 1, A and B, Amoskeag, Salmon Falls.
Exeters, Unknowns, Triumphs, Great Falls, Great
Western A and B, fine Merrimacks, Washingtons, By
rons, Anthonys, &c. Also, best Southern Yarn, assorted
twist, Nos. 5 to io and 7 to 12 ; Batts, white and colored
Carpet Warp, Wick, Twine, Wadding. Also, Suffolk,
Amoskeag, Salmon Falls, York and Luconia Drills, Osna
burgs, &c.
TOWNSEND N. UNDERHILL & CO.
FAIRBANK S NEW STORE?
73 CHATHAM STREET.
HARDWARE. CUTLERY AND TOOLS.
73 Chatham Street.
THE subscriber respectfully, informs his friends and
the public, that he has removed his business from
Uj'ulton street, to the large new store, 73 Chatham st.,
second door above Duane street, east side—that he has
very much increased his stock of Hardware and Tools,
and now oflers to the public the best selected and cheap
est assortment of goods’in the city. Builders may be
supplied with Locks, Bolts, Hinges, Nails, Screws, &c.,
at the lowest wholesale price, and Mechanics may get
the best Tools in the market, warranted to them, or the
price returned. Tool Chests furnished complete. Depot
tor American Cooper’s Tools.
HENRY F. FAIRBANK,
SECRETS WO'R T H KNOW ING.
LADIES, what sort of a husband will you get ? Gen
tlemen who will become your bosom partners for
life I Or will you be old maids and bachelors! Apropos!
you, who already are tied in the knot of matrimony,
flow long will you remain happy, or when will you get
nd of your other scolding and grumbling half! What
ire your prospects in life ? etc. All these, and many
other important secrets will scientifically be discussed
by the immensely celebrated Madame Adolph, from
rrance, now at 234 Grand street, near Bowery; she will
also inform her visitors, through her universally ac
knowledged skill in Mesmerism and Phrenology, all
their leading transactions of the past, the present, and
the future. Consultation hour any time during day and
evening till 10 o'clock. Fee 50 CENTS.
MONTHLY REPORT FOR FEBRUARY, OF THE
NEW YORK
MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE
75 CHAMBERS STREET. r
CASES SUCCESSFULLY TREATED.
1 Rheumatism, . |1 Case internal curvature
2 Cases of Pleurisy, f of the spine under treat
-3 Diarrhoea, me nt.
7 Examined to detect dis- 15 Seminal weakness
cases of the lungs. 1 Fissure in female uretha
5 Cases ol whites, tailing ol 3 Palpitation of the heart
the womb, and bearing 1 Secondary venereal *
down pains perfectly i Gleet of long standing
cured. 12 Sore eyes,
3 Cases acute Gonorrhoea, 4 Cases ofimpotency
1 Gonorrhoea, (chronic) 3 Blotches, venereal on
2 Bad cases of salt rheum ol skin,
long standing, 2 Discharges from Ear,
5 Pam in the side, 2 Gases of partial deafness.
1 Abdominal dropsy, 3 Dysentery,
5 Primary chancres, 2 Ulcerated breasts,
5 Primary consumption, 1 Disease of the liver
10 Under treatment, 5 Irritation in urethra
j Bad cases of cough,
SUCCESSFUL OPERATIONS AND CURES.
1 Fracture of the riba and 1 1 Tumor rem’ved from a
fibata, ! Elongated and enlarg
11- racturc of the radius, uvulas removed
3 Large ulcers, of long I Operation for squinting,
standing, 2 Polypus removed from
.5 Strictures cured in urc- rectum,
thra, . 2 Amputations,
1 Dislocation reduced, seve- > Pieces of bone taken from
ral injuries attended to the leg.
3 Large abscesses opened 2 Sprains of the ankle
under the arm. 5 Vcnerial Warts, ’
2 Suppression of mensis, 9 Operations for Phymosis
The poor attended to at 1 o’clock without charge.
HOMER BOSTWICK,
Acting Surgeon and Physician.
DR. AMOS HULL’S
UTERO-ABDOMINAL SUPPORTER.
rpHOMAS BOYD, M. D., makes the following state-
JL ment: “ I have applied Dr. Hull’s apparatus for
Prolapsus Uteri, with very much more success than I
ever experienced in the old method; and 1 now recom
mend it, to the entire exclusion of the Pessaries. From
my own repeated observation, I can with great confi
dence assert that the apparatus of Dr. Hull, called the
Utero-Abdominal. Supporter, is a new and highly use
ful improvement in that department of surgery which
regards the nature and treatment of displacements of the
womb.’ HULL’S Truss Office,
T ~ No. 4 Vesey street, Astor House.
Ladies Department—a private suite of rooms
_is placed under the especial charge of a qualified fe
m ale attendant.
WINDOW SHADE DEPOT,
NO. 7 SPRUCE STREET, TRIBUNE BUILDINGS.
ESTABLISHED IN 181 O.—Wholesale and Retail—-
SHADES of all descriptions including superband
brilliantly colored Gothic Scenes, of various prices: alto
the late style of beautiful Rural Landscape Scenes, a
much admired and desirable article ; together with
every style and description of Shade now in use, at fifty
per cent cheaper than can be bought at any other place,
irtaming, at