v,-\.: 'fry elevated fituati
hji.g ty which I Could com
pare it ; 1 thir.k a map, i; an incorrect
companion, a?, the various obje&a are
not, as in nature, deliueaud with fuf
ficient mil to bear with a relern
-blance. About this time Mr. "Oariierin j
Ltd at his watch, and observing we
'had bf-en five mlntties on the voyage,
prop,,led to debndin about the fame,
tiuie.— Tb* perulal of Mr S.iowch
iiarratne, led me to r bferve, with much j
attention, the power of hearing noifes |
• tther M.Gaburin nor myfelf, '
ifli founds above the eleva
feet, thow-h M. Gar
3'Min imagines, a veiy confuted found,
but totally undiuingu.frublr, may
■rd confider«Hly higher. We never!
attained a greater height, this day, hy
Mr. Gamerin's computation-, than about
1,200 French teifes, or 7,800 feet-
M. Garnerm being de{i-ous to return the j
lame evening to totvn, did notcboofe to
fe fo favorable an opportunity ofdecen
dbig. At length wefawat.adiftat.ee,
what proved'alteiwards to be Enping io* ,
reft, with a rtmge of diffant hills beyond, |
and elfi rvi'-o- an open champagne cotin
, M. Gduierin opened the valve,
• began to At fcptid. Ha directed
tne to evil to fome perfons employed in a
'fir-Id, as we apprcac'ht-d the ground, to
t-.A.i hold of the ropes, which we I:
thrown out f r that purpofe, and recom
mend; d me to hold fail by the ends, to
avoid the. fnock on the balloon's fiifl
towelling the earth—This precaution
p-oved very necell'niy, as the force with
■übith he deli ended was very confider
a'ule, occasioned by the force of the wind,
rather than by our fpectfic gravity, and
the rebound boie us up again with velo
city, to the height of 150 or 200 feet-
Itue-defcending, wt ftruck againfl a tree,
the (hock of wbi. b gave M. Garnerm a
i'evere blow on the back, and be obferved
that this was the only occafion, during a
period of twelvt'years, in which he had
been in the habit of aeroltation, and the
27th time.be bjtd afcended, that ha ever
itiffered frith an inconvenience.
■ ral of the peafintry being now at
hand, we were fecund frtnh any further
afcent, and slighted from the car with
rfecYfafcty. We immediately enqui
red our li nation, and found we had t'al
-1 n into a field of Mr. Owens, at Ching
i'jrd, in E<T.-x, and referring to our watch
f s, obferved we had made our voyage ex
lym one quarter of an hour. We
tifpstclird a melTenger to Woodford for
* polUiraife, and the inflammable air
having cv rJ, packed the balloon
in the car and had it conveyed to a fmall
inn at Chingford Green, adjoining wliich
■we had fctrfcended from whence,
arter a flight repaft on fpme piovfion
we bad brought with us, we frt off for
London, and arrived at M. Garnerin's
F.land Itreet, a quarter after nine in
the evening.
Although the mob, which furrounded
us on our defcent, were, as u'ual, both
'dome and ufticioufiy impertinent,
*c d great a'..t.-ntion and afTiit
vnce frotn Mr. Hughes, of the Stamp
Office, London, and fevera! other gen
tlemen who beheld our arrival. Atten
n would have been, however in fined
t'lis, if nccelfarv, by the paper put in
to the bands of M. Garnern, ngned by
hi. Royal Highnefs the Prince of Wales,
- oi Devonshire, Lords Bes
borough, Catbcart, and other petfons of
•diftinciion who witnefied our afcenlion
at Lord's Cricket Ground.
I am, etc.
EDWARD HAWKE LOCKER.
Greenwich, July 6, 1802.
- — ■■ - .' - - ■ i ~ , ——~-
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Subscriber, at his
% Conveyancing office President's Square,
City of Washington,
Vol. 2d of his Digest of the
Laws of the U. States.
Price I 1-2 dollars, or 2 doUarsfull bound
and lettered.
District of Columbia to toit.
BY it r?memlcred that on the eUvctith thy
of September efrhteea hundred and two,
|n fhe »7tl» yew ol >i\c. Independence of tlie
Unit, d .Sutui of A ncrica, Twos. Heal'T of
the (aid Diftria hag dcpcfited in this < thee the
tiie of a Book the right whereof he claims
ti avthor in the word, following to v.-ic " A
Divert of the hw of the United State* of A"
nitrica, being 3 cemplcte fyitem alphabetical
ly arranged of" all the p« licacla of Congref*
*in iarte from the commencement of the
feral tiovtrnnient, to the endofthe firft lef
fion of th< Seventh Congr in which terminate*!
in May ißoz, inrlufive. By 1 'noait Hearr
of Wafliiiigfon City, Conveya.-cer. Vol. II
41 in conformity to the acr of Uongrefs of the
Uuiwd State*, en-irkd " An act for the encoiir
Soest ef learning l>y fecuring the copies of
JvUps, Charts and booko to the authors and
proprietors ol l'uch copie« during th« time*
therein mentions
In teftinony whereof I have hereunto fub
fcribed my name and affixed the teal of my of
fice the eit-vciuh day of , v ept. iHo*
URIAH FORREST,
Clerk of the Circuit Cewrt of the Uiflri.'.t of
Columbia hela for ttie county of Wafhington.
Sept. i lawat.
Tennessee Company.
intereftcd in the Company, and
JL who have not ilgncd thedeed of trull, are
hereby notified, that the fubferiher will at
tend at the city of Wafhington on the 20th
of December ntit, to give them an opportu
nity of complying with this regulation of the
company.
JAMES STRAWBRIDOE,
May 26, J Be*, awtael>
pEhERAL MISUETaESEUtAriOIf.
No. XXII.
Of all the abfnrditiea to which federal
ifin in its wiklelf. paroxifms has given
birth, the pamphlet, to which the folio
ing •comments from the New-York E
veiling Pefl and Gazette relate, is per
haps the rncll extravagant. Nor do the
Coin men ts themfeives exhibit ar.yfuperi
ority in this refpec"! to the original.
We publdh them for the entertain
ment, the rierilion, the contempt of the
reader. They arc too Worthlefs for re
futation. They are predicate-d upon a
n.ofcrable belief that the people will fvral- j
low 2ny thing, ho-.v. ver gr.
Let any man read the extract:,
fay whether They can be written by any
one in his I The author ye
n mad when he penned them. We
thought the idea of illuminatifm in this
country had been fo completely Icon ted,
and thofe who encouraged its belief been
fo humiliated by a conviction of their
folly, that the hydra would not have,
railed its head for a century. But we
find there is nothing too grofs for facti
on. Should any man be'.itate for a mo
ment in pronouncing this attempt in la
in hi*, let him read the recent pamphl
publihVd in relation to John Wo- d ; and
be will therein find that Wood r» not on
ly convicted of a total difregardof truth,
but unhlufhingly acknowledges his vio
lation of it, J» this the man, whom fi -
deralifm iiftaios in his calumniating fome
of the beft men in the community as vil
lains, traitors, robbers, and devils!—lf
the people of America are to have this
farce of impoilure acted over again, in
the name of decency let the federal pa
pera fill their columns with Robtnfon's
and Morfe's vagaries, initead of the vu!«
garifins of Wood.
From The New-York Evening Post.
A full exposition of the Clintonian faction
and the Society of th? (Ajlvmbi k ll
luminati, ifc. by John Wood.
The contents of this pamphlet are in
flrict conformity with the title page.
Wood has redeem*-1 she pledge he gave
to tl-.e public, and fully cxpcled the art
ful machinations of atnbit.ous men, who,
in order to accomplifh their inordinate
proji-cts of aggrandizement, and their
df figns against the freedom of the coun
try, and to collecl every ray of power,
weight and influence in the Hate into the
foul locus of their own private views,
have had recom fie to practices, fuch asm
flrict juftice ought to disfranchife any
citizen who oi'ed them, and to expedi
ents, fuch as in the feftfe of llrid't honour,
mud forever degrade and difcredit t.iem.
It appears they have not fcrupled to en
-1 ift under their banners, all whom demo
cratic fraud and artifice, all whom mil
reprcfeutation, open fall'ehood, calumny,
and prepoflerous promifes, operating up
on unwary ignosance, could make facti
ous, turbulent and maltonicnt at homr,
as well as all the fl-.gitious fugitives,
whom rriuidcr, rape, robuery and rrbelli
on have driven from dilla;.t countries to
take fandluaiy here from the dungi on or
the gibbet—a Ijerd oi incendiaries whom
the regular jultice of the laws, and the
■wld jiiilice of the mobs of Europe have
coot Hired to chafe away from her fhoies.
Alter having in a perfpjeuous manner,
and with a Ipirit ol firmneis which does
bun credit, fuccelsfully elucidated thofe
vile proceedings, Mr. Wood advtrts to
a fuojedl which if duly revolved, and ex
amined in all its bearin: s, iv fundamen
tal principles, its original caules, and its
probable confcqticnccs, will be found ot
more awlul import, more alarming mag
nitude, and more dangerous tendency,
than (tince the revolution) it has fallen to
the (hare of this country to encounter:
—A pregnant with practical mif
cfnef, and conceived in as pure unmixed
abllract wickednefs, vice and impiety as
ever emanated from the arch fpirit of
Evil himfelf in Ins bittereff malignity to
mankind—"The fchemes of a fociety
denominated by theinftlves, in a fort ot
courtefy TfoeistS, by Mr. Wood, Colum
bian Illuminati, but by plain truth, In
fidels:'
It cannot be too frequently repeated to
the people of this country, that the ilu
pendens mafs of mifchieis, which under
the name of Jacobinifm, has within the
laft twelve years defeated crviliz- d Eu
rope, had its roots in infidelity, called (in
our opinion very profanely) Deism or
'Theism. It let out with the denial of
Ghrift and emboldened by impunity, it
ended in the denial of Goo : Hand in
hand with it went rebellion againlt law
ful authority j which, after running its
courle of bioodfhed, destruction ot pro
perty, and the ovei throw of all civil and
religious eltablilhments, at lall cane to
its goal (according to the natural fnccef
fion of caufe and confequence) in the
molt ferocious delpotilin, and in the moll
frightful depravation of morals and man
ners.—Juft the fame game is now play
ing in America, and will and mult come
to the i'ane end, if meanS are not taken
to prevent it. It is vain for Americans
to lay that they *re a free people, and
cannot be fo practifed upon The ani
mated freedom, the heroic patriotilin, ihe
univerfal unfeigned piety, and the pure
and inflexible virtue of Switzerland, lit
tle availed her againlt artifices file did!
not fulpect, againlt excel Tea to which (lie
oppofco only contemptuous toleration, ■
and again ft plol -, Confpii acies ami-confpi- i
to which an over-weening coirii- 1
dence in her own flrength, afforded im- 1
puiiity. 1 lad Ihe in due time Hopped the
proceedings of her j,ic.nl,in Illuminati, 1
flic would not be at this day languilhir.g 1
tor her loft liberties, 'and withering un- I
de.r the all-confuming baleful fhade of
French protectioil. Let America profit
by her example. If Ihe docs not fhc de
ferve* Aaveiy. They have not read of
tht decline and fall of the Roman Em
pire, who will fufperSt the author of great
partia-sty for the caufe of religion, yet
Mr. Gibbon in a letter to Lord Sheffield,
written in the 1790, from Switzerland
where he then resided, laments the fright
ful alteration which French intcrccurf-
I made in that Country, and fays, " /
<l hr-:e sometimes thought of writing a di
" alogue of the dead, in which Lucian,
w Erasmus, and Voltaire should mutually
" acknowleage the danger of exposing an
" old superstition to the contempt of I
** blind and fanatic multitude." In the
fame lett-r he fays— ** 1 i'ubferibe my af
fentto Mr. Burkes creed on the revolu
tion of France; I admire his eloquence ; j
1 approve his politics; I adore his chival
ry ; and can almost forgive his reverence •
for church establishments" Thus he
who cotil.l only bring hiinfelf to almost
forgive Burkes reverence ior church ef
tablilhments out of compliment to his ge
neral principles, difapproves becaule he
rei ogiiivses the danger of expofing even
an old fuperftition to the contempt of the
blind ana fanatic multitude. So much
for the authority of opinion.—Having
premikd thus, we proceed to lay before
our readers an abltracvt of Mr. Wood's
(late me nt.
He alledges that for three years pafi '
there has exilled in New Ymk a letret I
tociety, grafted upon amd in ail fhapes re- i
fembling the acts of llluniiiiiti to which
Aiibe Bairuel and Pioltlfor Robinfoii
have attributed all the difafttts wiiicb
hrtve befallen the nations of Europe.
Alter mentioning the Illumiuatis in£u« I
rope lit- proceeds—
" 'ihe locitty in New-York, which I j
am about to dcicribe, was in fact a h.cie
ty of this iiatuie, erected 111 rebellion to
the kklicious ads of the ftate. This
will be proved from their conltitution,
and the confet&on of feveral of the meiii
bers. It was a fociety fraught with the ■
blackeit intentions, to over mm the di
vine revelation, and to raile the hand of
oppolition againlt the opinion of eveiy
curiitian. Their fcheim: was notconfiu- '
ed to tke Hate of New-Yoik, but lollow
ing the example of the Iltumuinti in Eu- \
rope, it will be feen from the ninth am- ,
cleof their printed constitution, that they j
had coirtfponuiiig committees, to propa- i
gate their new pliilufophy throughout the
word."
Again—
•* the origin ef this fociety was, how
ever, more lylttmatical than eitner tiie ]
ie lets of Switzerland, or any other pti>
haps of the deicriptitii which has b en
eilabiilhed—it arole upon the ruins ol the j
celebrated demociatic lociety of New- '
Yoik, in the fame manner as the iluiuii- 1
nati originated fioni the remarkable ;
Lodge ot the Eltiftc Mafoniy at Mu
nich, called the Theodore of good Council
—it Wo 3 compofed of the tcattered dregs
of thole Jacobin Infidels, who covered \
the democratic lociety with difgrace, and
Ih'd a degree of odium upon the pure
dodlrine of republicamfm, which the et- \
torts of the virtuous patriot, will not lor j
years wipe away—it lliued from the tomb I
of its fallen parent, l.k- a foul lpcCtic, j
blotted with crimes, gaping with Venge
ance, and cage 1 to the weak and
unfufpicious mind into the abyfsot eter
nal torment-.—As the gractlets' fon of
agracelefs family, mod frequently exerts
all his ingenuity to complete the infamy
of a ruined refutation, fo the members
of the Theillical fociety, mtditated upon
every febttne to add tne lalt reproach to
their characters, already broken &i,d def
pifed.—The imported )'cum of the Eum
burgh Convention, and the refute of the
bauilhed rebels of Ireland, joined alio
their hearts and hands with the infidels
of New-York, in planning this fociety
It was in (hurt a combination of treache
ry, of indigence, of ireiuy, intemperance
and every fpecie» of polluted baleneis,
for the purpole of combating religion,
virtue and wifdom. Among luch a mot
ly crew, one might fuppofe their relolu
tions would be marked with folly ane ig
norance ; but this was not the cafe ; for
although all the Devils which ilTued from
Pandora's box, may be fuppcftd to have i
had a voice in their decrees; yet it is to j
be remembered, that each ot them h -d ,
been previouJly exercifed, for feveral !
years in iinnlar fchemes, and therefore, !
knew how to glofs the blackeit villainy j
under the fpecioiia veil of morality—
They were no novices in th s relpecl; |
tlicy were not (li angers to the art ot cun- |
ning or deceit. They were well acquaint
ed, both how to make, and lay their
traps, fo as to be invthble to any eye, not
tinged with fufpicion—Like felonious
J robbers, they affociated with, feigned,
and courted the habitudes of inciulLy
I and religion during the day, that they
might with more fccurity in their night
ly cabala, mangle the divine Revelation
into a banquet of pleal'ure, and tea/on the j
works of the Fathers, with the feeds ot
epicurean philofophy. AH their inter-
Courfe, all their addons and dealings
were infectious. They were the hidden
inflraments of vice and torment ; like r
poil'onous plaim, c&rropfwg ail about £
them." :;
Mr. Wood then acknowledges that I
tot' ral d'.f'.iip'ion there are foul
exceptions of well-meaning men. deluded 1
by the artful liccious logic of their •
friends— '
"But thefe well-rneanmg rpembers '
were kept, as will be proved, from ilv i ii
lead' i- -: in-y were totally Qnacquaint- '
ed with their ffhenie:-- —they ivnagiii
nothing wa ted btfl in their pre- '
fence*—th«-y had no idea that there w<
different gr ides in the fociety v, ,-■.
ignorant of the diabolical plans which i
were dady forming !,y the dirtclorj— . :
they knew nothing about the proceed ii
of ferret committee: ~tiicy imagined ]
there were none lupcrior in knowledge i
rank to tlieinfelv. -s. Like honell fimp|
tons, tiiey thought all whiih they f.iw I I
and heard was for the public good. I In y, I
therefore, made no fecret of comrutu
eating what they knew to their friends j
and acquaintances, thi y rather exhorted '
them U) become members of the than,
ble inllitutlon, to partake of its bleflinj
and to be enlightened by the influence of
its doctrines."
From the Nero-York Gazette.
DESCRIPTIONS.
In the late curious, and important
pamhlet of Mr. Wood, entitled, '• A full i
expofition of the Clintonian faction, and |
the fociety of the Columbian Illuminati,"
&x. lie has freely iudulgtda (bun of
wit and ridicule, and fome will think, of
an improper refentment. Though it
fhould !)'- judged that in a few inilances
he colon, i too highly, and that he is under
the influence oi prejudice and pallion,yct
t this will not hinder the general good
i tendency of his performance. Truths
are Itill truths with whatever temper
they are told. It mull be confeffed that
he has a great felicity in fketching
' characters, whatever nmy be thought of
I his julticc. The following will afford a
fpecimen : —
Mr. Cheetham, he " poflefTes all the
cunning of an artful proititute, that un
der a placid countenance, mafks deepde*
figu and plotting vengence."— Mr' i)tn
nislon, *♦ the coufin of Mr. l)e. Wit:
Clinton," or, " a blood relation of tlie
Clinton family," or limply, " couiin
1) nnilton."— Air Riker, M a twittering
torn-tit." —Mr. Wormian H a drooping
owl."— Air. George Clinton, jun'r '* a
I tender hearted youth with baby Cheeks,''
■ — Mr. Sidcll, " a taylor." Mr. Driscotl,
formerly "a Roniifh prith, and puf
! feffed of all the jefuitical cunning oi an
j apollate." — Mr. Jefferson, k " the boun-
I tiful ftatefman ol Moriticello." ,— Mr.
J'almer, H the Weifhaupt of the order."
[Illuminati.] — Mr. Walter Mortal,
v an huge greefy looking fellow, Vritij
large gogglisig eyes" —" a dirty Scotch
I fnake fcraperV'-r-There are others whom
' Mr. Wood dors not name, but deici ibes ;
j one as " the philofophic barber," who
i wrote " an cll'.iy on the liberty of the
' prefs," for which he received the thanks
of Mi. J Ibrfou ; and who lhaved Mi.
Oe Witt Clinton with M a many toothed
irob " —another, as •' a meager looking
watehir.nlyer"—and a thud, as " a bala
headed Caledonian."
In fome of tht fe things Mr. Wood is
! certainly to be condemned. It is fair
enough to compare Mr. Riker to a torn
i tit, and M« Wormian to an owl, provi
ded the rcfcmblaiice holds. Thus we
| call a man who is cunning, nfox ; a man
I who is flrong, a lion, ice. iiiit to reproach
i a man for being bald headed, and another
for being meager ; unlets the one has
pulled Ins ban out through vexation at
I loling an eledtion, and the other pined a
way in endeavouring to promote the rights
of man ; is altogether exceptionable.
What may have been the cafe with ref
peft to thefe two gentleman to whom
Mr. Wood refers is unknown to me,
as are alfu their names. Until it is
fhown that the one 101 l his hair by his
own fault, and that the other became
lean in the manner which has been faid,
or for want ot fomething to eat, I lhall
blame Mr. Wood.
CRITICUS.
From the American Citizen.
Speech of J(j:d Jacket.
I have with no fmall anxiety obferved,
in my abfcncetroin the county ot Onta
rio, the publication of a talk, laid to
have bien delivered atCanandauigua on
I th« 3d of Augult. by Red Jacket, the
; principal Speaker of the Seneca nation
ioi Indians. The complexion of a pint
i of it is fo lingular and fo different from the
i Indian mode of talking, that 1 was led
jat firft to luppilie it a mere fabrication ;
j but osi enquiry, I'uicc my return, have
j been cretl.bly informed that it is i.me
! thing more than a farce, created by
party fpirit for the pUrpofe of alarming
the public, and exciting the fear* of wo
men and children. Some evil genius
who delights in mil chief, mid who pays
no refpect to the feelings of his neigh
bour or to the peace -nd fctuiity of pri
vate families, has been bulily engaged
in the righteous work of perfonal re
venge. •am unwilling to i'ufpect Mr.
j Cbapin,late agent to the Six Nations,
of fo foul a piece of mifconducV. But
many ciicnmit-ances occurred which tix
upon him a fufpicion wkich it will IJCl JC }
difficult to remove; particularly hii d.{'
• '. sgercj to tl -
Six t.'.tim at that event,
arid his intin ;.■..; r.cqtifcintai cc with the
afts. The oj ]'ii tin,ity was very
favorable to fi- purpofi ■ t fetlcing
tisfaciion t i l.is remoVal, by ddquiet
ing the mind, and cXiifprrating the
tempers of the Indians. They,were al
y loured by the impiitorment pfone
of their number for (tabbing one white
man and killing another. A tifuif.tioii
from one in nice to anoth
er, wateafy and natural. Alarrmdat
the 1. -'..-ty of i r, ai d lore at
his confinement by/she white n.er, tl ty
were eafily deceived into a belief that
foin«tbing wa» wrong in the govern*
incut of tin: countiy. Th I com
panion of the treai i the Indians
i< ns ol ai
Wafhingtoi, > the dr.v,
ger which thieaieiitd the* under
i,,.it of Mi. JtifeTfoii, could not have
been • the remit of the Sntal-.ei's
i< ri.«".';rn , but was evtdt :ly 11 tl
by feme perfon wh, fe heart w d
ed with difapp i That tl
nmft have been the cafe., will be ye, y c i«
chut, when we consider is
have btrn conflantly Complaining, that
the refidence of Mr. Cbapi
mote t-.-in any ol their p
merits, that he com
attentions to their coi 1
very well known in this
Blackfmitb employed by 1
of the United States ai
tion to the Six Nations, li
mediate vie;:,ity of Mr. Chapim
made it iicc« fury for them, whenevcl ,t
hoe or hatchet was wanted, a gun or
ftrap was to be mended, to travel
two hundred miles from the- place tf their
principal fettleinents. On this point
little doubt will remain, when it is
known, that many refpectahle citizens
of my neighbourhood, have prefented a
memorial to the Prefident of the United,
States, urging the necellity of ?*lr. v.l.i
pin's removal under a conviction that
neither the United States, nor the In
dians, were much benefitted by bis agen
cy* Large funis of money and other
property paffed through his hand.-., which
enabled him to afl'ume that lituation in
life, which bis other rcfources were not
petent to effect.
Ten or twelve thoufand dollar?;, with
the other means annually fupplied by
his agency for the accumulation of wealth,
were not to be loft without a murmur.
Here is the rub, which irritated the feel
ings, and dictated this curious Indian
talk. Here we may perceive the reafon
of that lingular connecVseii in the fame
fpeech, between the impriibnment of th
Speakei's brother, and the, complaint of?
M,. Cbapin's removal. I Would not;
without reafon, afcrihe to any imin ini
proper motives; but flupidity itleif will
haidly believe, that the fentiments ut
tered by Rid Jacket were the natural
eifulions of his own undemanding, 1
that he would, without prompting, have
cjtifukred Chapin's difmiffion 8 griev
ance, when the Indians had repeatedly
t: miplaintd ol the inutility „f l.is »gefr
cy- A.' B.
Canunduaigna, Aug. 15, 1802.
From the Albany Register.
The Speech of Red Jacket, of Au
gult 3d 1302, in behalf of the Seneca,
Onondaga and Cayuga Indians, defcrvc 1
particular notice. By this fpeech, it
wi!) be It-en that fome intriguing buiy
body, fome enemy to the peace and tran
quil'ty of the United Staves, has con
trived to four the minds of thofe abo
rigines agai;,ft the Executive of tl
Union. " We underftaud," fay* the ora
tor, " that the Prefident has appointed
a luperintendant, who is altogether un
known to us, and who is unacquainted
with Indian affairs."—fhis premature
condemnation of the Executive, evinces
clearly that the Indians are difpofed to
quarrel at all events, cr e-lfe, that they
have been impoftd upon by fome dclign
ing knave or knaves, who dilgrace the
American name; $c that for pyrpofes thr
nioft dilhonorable, they have been led to
pi e-judge the newly appointed agent.
is it, that has been fo officious as to i
frigate thefe people to'an attempt fo f
tile as that of dictating to tht auniii i
tiation in the choice of its agent.
to mdii- 1 to cavil at the anpoin
ment of a fuperiritendent before thi
have had r.ny trial of his ! »r tiie
employment any fi
flagrantly wicked as to promct
dian War, for the fake of c.nba; 1
the mciimes of Adininilli Clan
n -ii 1, rl n
the ifiti I the j m;.
the peace and d,
Let the mamf dfurer of Indii
es and the tinpriuci] ,01-ul Red
Jacket, ifc'Jw'ejr thefequeftionu
NOTICE.
ON fatprdfty the ittJi of September next,
:-.ve d tbe hours of to and ri r»'clUk
in the forenoon, »t bit-lip's Hotel, City <f
Wafh : rrr'"n,
coder the bankrnpt laV of the United
will b; gi anted to t!
|f o. tht
liia.
Be.
Avg rv, t&eii,
1