Domclhc Jnteiiignue.
NEW-YOlvK, March 7.
The Turks on board the John Adams are
flout, \veil-lookiug men. Muliapha, who had
been captain of one of the Tripoline gun-boats,
has an open and pleafing countenance, and is
polite in add refs. He fpeaks a little Englifli,
and is very affable. His drefs, as well as that
of fotnt others of his countrymen, has been ve
ry rich, and Ihews, in its tarnifhed condition,
that it was once elegant and fnperb. The ob
ject of bringing the Turks to this country is to
give them an opportunity of witnefling our
manners, and experiencing our humanity ; an
objeCl evidently wife ami laudable.—It may
learn them more than we wifh.
Extra!! of a letter from Wfi/hington, to the E
diior of the Evening Pcjlt dated March 1.
“ Dear Sir,
“ I forwarded to you fome days fincc, a bill
which was introduced to the Senate on motion
and under the patronage of Gen. John Smith,
of Ncw-York, granting to Aaron Burr, Vice
Prelident, tkr right of franking letters during
his life. Y- llerdav the bill had a third reading,
and, I am forry to be obliged to add, palled
that Branch, avt s 18—noes 13.—It was oppo
fed with great firmnefs and ability, l*v Mctl'rs.
Hillhoufe. Pickering and fe viral other Senators.
Dining the difeuflion, the fuhjeCt of the late
melancholy and ever tube lamented duel, was
brought into view, and the New-Jerfey indict
ment for the murder that was committed.—
Milch warmth enfurd. Mr. Wright of Mary
land, went the length of defending duelling as
proper and jufliliuble. He hail the unheard of
afiur.ince to qu >te feripture too: “David
fought a duel (laid he) with Goliath of Gath
and flew him, and this bill isoppoied onlv be
caufe the little David of rcpuhlicanifm has flaiii
the great Goliath of federation.”
“This morning the franking bill, winch I
have juft mentioned, was taken up in the houfe.
On motion that the further confideration of the
bill be poftponed to the 111 Monday in Decem
ber next, much to the honour of the Houfe, it
was carried in the affirmative, ayes 58—noes
PHILADELPHIA, March 7.
Ex trail uf a letter from Cadiz, dated 7tb of Ja
nuary, 1S05.
“ I beg vour reference to my letter of the
14th December, which was difpatched by the
American Ihip Fanny, captain Wood, via Nor
folk, this will ferve to acquaint you of the high
prices of tobacco, fl r.r, wheat and rice, owing
to the gr at fcarcity of thofe neceiTary articles,
all occafioned by the complete failure of the
crops throughout all this kingdom—knowing
this to be the actual condition of this country,
in my opinion, you could not do better than to
adventure here—tobacco is very high and much
wanted—-flour is this day 23 dolls, per barrel,
wheat riling 5 dolls, per hufliel rice is 9 dolls,
to 16 per quintal or nett loolbs. all thefe pri
ces mult ur.queftionablv hold good till the north
fess are practicable, which will not be till June
next, and the fupplies from the Mediterranean
are very limited and partial, the emperor of
France having forbid the exportation of wheat
where his influence extended, fo that molt, if
not all the fnpplies muft come from the United
State0. From a full view of thefe fads I have
no doubt in my mind that fliipments from A
merica in the above articles will yield a hand
fome advantage to the fhipper. A rumour pre
vails that this port is or will he blockaded in
confequence of a letter written by the admiral
Sir John Orde, to the Governor of Cadiz, de
claring the painful necefiity he was under of
placing the port in a (late of blockade. The
Governor’s anfwer was dignified—(till howe
ver a numbt r of neutral vefi'els have arrived
without being molefted or forbid by the En
gli(h fquadrr u— however as it is always belt
to guard againft evil confequenees, 1 would ad
vife, in cafe you make any fhipments to this
country to direft the rr after or fupercargo to
go into the port of St. Lucar which is only five
or fix Langes diftant from Cadiz provided be is
Pot permitted by the Englifh fqnadron to come
in here. The port of St. Lucar is the only fea
porl of the great city of Seville, and where, in
fai't, every thing is dearer than even at this
place.”
Blockade of Hainnna.— ll is reported, (we
fupp< fe on the authority of letters from that
port) that the Ilavanna is rlofdy blockaded by
aBriri li fqnadron.—This report is fully corro
borated by rapt. Fi/ber, arrived at Chariefton,
who failed in corn; any with the Rover.
ALEXANDRIA, March 13.
The following protcft demands the attention
not only of our government I ut of every ci
tizen of 'he United States of whatever party.
Befides the impreflment of the failor, a na
tive citizen of America, befides the order to
imprefsall feamen claiming to be Americans,
where their protections are dated after May,
J8C4, we are authorized to add that the
captain himfetf was treated v^ry difrefpeCt
fuily and improperly.
VIRGINIA*
BE it known, that on this twenty-eighth day
of February, in the year of our Lord eighteen
hundred and five, before me, Kobrit IL Taylor,
a notary public for the difiriCt of Norfolk, du
ly corrmiflioned and fworn, appeared John Gil
pin, matter of the American fchr. Henrietta of
Alexandria, and being duly fworn, declared,
that he failed on board the faid fchr. as matter,
from St. Bartholomews, on tire ninth day of the
prefent month, hound to Alexandria ; that
they proceeded without.my material occurrence
until the nineteenth inttant, on which day, be
ing in latitude twenty nine north anti longi
tude feventy one weft, they fell in with the Bri
tifh government brig Bnfy, commanded by cap
1iin Byam, who, againft the rrimm
ftrance8 of the appearer, imprellctl and took a
way from on board the Henrietta, one of the fca
f»u 1, named Martin George, a na’ive of Wico
mico, in Virginia, although be had a protecti
on, under flit ft d of the colltdor of Alexandri 1
which was fhewn ♦<> rapt ain Byam. The failing
n after, who war. the boarding officer, ftated that
they had received orders from the admiralty to
imprtfs all feaincn claiming to be Americans
where their protections were dated after May,
1*04, that he was fatisfied that the faid Martin
Or urge was an American, but that there were
eighteen Or twenty o'hers whom they had taken
from American vrfie's, in the fame fituation, ami
that it was intended as a retaliation of the ill
treatment experienced by the Britifh frigatesat
New-York, Irnm the rmgittratcs of .hat city.
Wherefore I, the faid notary, at the requeft
of the fan! appearer, have prottfted, and do
b r< bv protcft a gainft the captain and crew of
tl c fiid 1 rig Bnfy. as alfo againtt the Britifh go
vernment, for the imprt fTincnt of the faid Mar
tin Georg*, and for all detention occafioned
thereby.
Which I atteft.
ROBERT K. TAYLOR,
Notar) Public.
John Oil-Pi*.
FROM THE VIRGINIA rtFRESS.
To the freeholders of the Congrrfftortnl dijfrifl,
compofed of the counties of SpotJ'ylvu.cia, Loui
fu, Orange and Aladijort*
Fallow Citizfns,
1 'ie time is fad approaching when you will
J be called on to elect lb me peifonto rep'cleiit
; you in the Congrefsofthe United States. I take
I the liberty to advife you that I am ready to ferve
; the diltrift if it i.. your pteafurc to cleft me. I
; refort to this public mode of announcing my
| intention as it is next to impofiihle I Ihould be
{ able to fee the freeholders individually ; nor in
! deed do ] conliderit neccfiary* for it is inclif
; penfible to the due exercife of the right of fuf
I Irage, if a freeholder is not acquainted with the
' candid itc he commune with him who is, there
j by to capacitate himfelf to lieflow his vote in
| a way mod honorable to himfelf and molt ad
! vnntageons to his country. Almoflever liner I
was eligible I have experienced the partiality of
I my native county fo far as to be honored with
' its confidence in the charafter of its reprefenta
1 tive in the State Leri nature. 1 was elected in
the year 1708, aerilis, memorable in politics,
and well calculated tot*. II the fentiments of a
public funftionary. 1 flatter inyfdf it is not ne
cefiary within the fphere of my acquaintance to
date that my fentiments from the moment of
my political exigence (after the drifted ted)
have been republican. A fix years fervice in the
I.egifiature of Virginia, releaves me from the
d;l.igreeahle neecfiity of commenting upon the
fiiarel have taken in polities; the records of
the body of which I was a member bear me fi
lent, but I trull fatisfaftory evidence, tli.it in
every fituation and in every viciflitude, my aid,
fueh as it was, invariably was rendered to bring
about that mild and happy adminiftration which
at prefent marks the general government, to
give fupport to which will conditnte the polar
dar of my political conduft. In my private re
lations I am conncfted with your countrymen,
by every tie that binds and keeps together the
fociety of man ; I am placed in that middle
condition between poverty and wealth, which
exempts me from the pride and infolence of
wealth ; and on the other hand, renders me in
dependent. And independence procured by
my own exertions and arifing from property i
dentically like that of which nineteen twentieths
of you, are poflefled. Yes, countrymen, in the ]
event of my eleftion I (hall cultivate the foil
only for a fupport. I am a father, I am a huf
band, theft are the pledges of citizenlhip I ten
der—and if 1 o melancholy an occurrence ihould
happen that in any moment of my life I (hou.d
forget what was due my confidence, mv cha
rafter or my country ; thefe ties are guarantees
to your fifety ; fo long as conjugal affeftion, or
a pious fentiinent for parents, of an affeftionate
regard for children or felfinterell itfelf. have do
minion over man, f<> long your intereft and mine
are indilToluhly connefted, and by promoting
yours, I ftiail invariably promote my own.
In the attempt I am now making to reprefent
you, I am fully fenfible of the difficulty I have
to encounter in being oppofed by a citizen who
has hitherto reprefented the diftrift for a fcries
of years. I am well aware of the ufual argu
ment, “ fnall we turn out an old fcrvant but
this will he eafily anfwered if the fnhjeft re
ceives that inveftigation which its importance
merits. On the ltd March the character of that
gentleman as a reprefentative ceafed. Tlic of
fice is now vacant. What are his pretentious
in preference to mine? Has : e difeharged his
duty ? Has he afted in every refpeft as you wilh
cd him ? it he ftiouid have been l'o fortunate, he
has only done that which from the nature of his
undertaking he was bourn! to do. lie has re
ceived his reward by the nature ofthe truft con
fided to him by the confcioufncfs of having done
his duty and the approbation of his country.
If on the contrary, he has not . quailed your ex
pt ft.ition and has purfued a line of conduft of
which you dilapprove, he has no claims upon
yonr gratitude. My own opinion is that a man
who fihs that office Ihould, occafionally revert
to the great mafs of the people. Stripped of
theenligns and diverted of the feelings of office,
reduced to the level of citizen fliip, he ihould
enter into their views, unrierftand their intereft,
know their wants, and thereby learn the real
connection between the conftituent body and
their fervants. As a general principle, it may he
laid down, that if the reprefentatives of the peo
ple are too long continued in anyone office, they
are apt to think their re-eleftion as a matter of
right. They loofe that tender fallibility to
wards their conftituents, and that devotion to
their fei vice which they ihould invariably poi
iefs. To give however the argument of con
tinuing to deft beenufe having been elefted, the
utmnft weight it defervea, it will be like duft in
the balance juft calculated, all things elfe hung
equal to turn the feale. 1 feel imprefieri with a
conviftion that confideraiions of an higher na
ture will attract the attention and influence the
decilion ofthe people.
There are four cardinal points wdl worthy
your regard in fclefting a reprefentative to con
grefs. Similarity of intereft, moral character,
extent of talents, political fentiments; delicacy
forbids the invidunus tafk of drawing a compa
rifon between my opponent and myfelf upon
tlu fe various queftions. You, countrymen, arc
fhe tribunal to decide between us. If the deci
lion Ihould he favorable to my willies, it will be
viewed as the moll fortunate Incident of my
life, it will be regarded a i an additional and high
ly honorable proof of the friendftiip ofiny coun
try, it will infpire me with fentiments of inde
lible gratitude, and will ftimulat me to fnpply
what ftiail be wanting in ability o- experience
by aninduftry which ihall not he fatigued, and
by a zeal which Ihall know no abatement. If
however, my opponent be deemed more wor
thy yonr confidence, the fn ft maxi.n of my po
litics riirefts me to nequiefee and bow with
cheerfulnefs to the will of the people, in any
tituatlon I Ihall be placed by my country, f truft
i (hall be fatistied, and continue to make her
profperity the firft objeft of my wiftics.
Believe me,
very refpcftfolly, yotir
friend and fellow citizen,
JAMES BARBOUR.
Orange, March <>, I80J.
tp.mllnncouj?.
Coronation Coin. A new gold coin lias
been ftruck at the coronation of the emperor
Napoleon, about the value of the old French
Louis’ d’ors. On one fide is the head of Bona
parte, round it within the rim “ Napoleon em
peror,” on the reverfe, in the centre a wreath
of laurel and oak leaves formed by entwined
branches. In the centre the words “ twenty
franrtround it « Refnhlinne Franraife,” at
the foot of the branches “ An 12.” It is f,iid
to be worth four dollars.
Doctor Thonton, author of the Temple
of Flora and Philofobby of Botany, a work now
publifhing in thirty parts of which twenty three
have appeared, has been prefented w ifh a dia
mond ring from the Emperor Alexander of Rnf
fia. The donation was conveyed with a letter
from the learned Nnvoffilzoff, prcfid- nt of the
Imperial Academy of Arts and Sciences, Ha.
ting that the Emperor “ having examined intQ
Mie contents of his fplcudid, elaborate, and
utefu! Botanical work, hed directed him to tranf
mit that ring,as ancxpreffion of his approbation*
THE FRENCH IMPERIAL MANTLP.
The French pipers give the following deferip
tion of this mantle. It is of the fineft velvet, of
iniaranthus color four ells ^tix yards Englifh)
long from the extremity of the train to the top
ofthe coliar. Ami nearly eight feet wide.—The
ground ispar/eme with golden bees.embroider
ed in hofs. It is edged with a golden border,
the rich net's of which is only equalled by the
workmanlhip. At «qual intervals, in the midft
of branches oflaun I, in full bloom, and tars of
corn plcafingly intermixed, is a fiber fnn, fur
mounted by an o ik and m olive, and within the
fun, the letter N. in raifed gold. This mantle is
entirely lined with ermine ; the fur extends
nearly four inches in breadth, beyond the bor
der in gold. It has alfo a broad collar, in the
fhape of i tippit, all of ermine. There is only
one open lleeve, like that of aTurkifli drefs;
and upon the ('tiler an openimr, which is to be
doled wi h a elafp of diamonds. The mantle
of the emprefs, is in every rofpcd like tliat of her
anguft con fort, with this exception, that the
funs in the border are of gold, and the letter N.
of liivcr.
FROM THE KENNEBEC GAZETTE.
LONGEVITY.
THE following inftnnces of unufinl Longevity,
have been recorded in the American Papers,
during the year 1804, to wit.
Tears. M.
John Qnarterman, Penn. S4
S i nucl Harrow, Boothbay, Me 10.5
Ephraim Pratt, Shutclbury, Mali'. 117
John Bcluap Willkboro’, lot
Dorathy Dufm, Philadelphia, lo5
Ann Biker, Waterford, Me. 105
Sarah Low, Fitchburg, MafT. 93
Abigail Stone, Groton, MalT. 93
Henry Abram, Chillicothe. 102
Geo. Gregory, Kingfton, Eng. 106
Jean George, England, 110
John Stewart, (Col. of the Tinkers) Aber
feldy, England, 106
A M in in Lithuania Poland, 163
lames Thomas, Georgia, U. S. 134
Pornpe, Negro, Delyware, 120
Anthony, Negro, Philadelphia, 10.5
lity Enti Fohia; a Chincfe, Canada, 102
Abigail Houghton, Stow, Mill'. loi
Lydia Bickford Salem, Mali’. io5
Mrs. Rice, Marlboro’ Mall’. 99
Sufanna Robinfon, Dorch. MafT. 94
Eleanor Shackford, Portfmouth N. II. 91
Mildred Frothingham, Providence,
Abigail Edwards, Connecticut, 91
Mary Haltings, Wefton, MalT. 101
Mrs. Mafon, Salem. MafT. 95
Moles Belknap, Atkinfon, N. H. 139
Jofeph Farnwortb, Fairfax, Ver. loo
Sufanna B ahhridge, Salem, Ma»T. 90
Mrs. Bullocks, Salem, Mali'. 90
Either Lane, England, 105
Samuel Brown, Connecticut, 90
If.iker Baker, York, Maine, 93
Twelve of whom had the fingular^7/r/7/ of
living ill THREE CENTURIES.
N. II. Oal Parr, died in England in the
year of oui Lord 152.
ENQ
RICHMOND, MARCH 19, 1805.
It is one of the fnrrcd privileges of the accu
fed to have “ a fpeedy and public trial, before
an impartial jury.” That this privilege fhould
have its complete effect, it tmift not be confined
to the law only or to its minifters ; it muft ob
tain the rcfpeift and obedience of every man of
influence in the community. Of what avail
would it he to the accufed, that the conftituti
on of his country had recognifed this priv iiege ;
or even if the ftatute book had attempted to
give it all its efficacy, by providing an enlight
ened bench and an impartial jury to cftimate
his offences ; if when h was put to the bar, his
judges had completely prejudged his crimes,
and if the minds o? his jury had been prejudi
ced by any ex-parte ftatement of his cafe, or by
any unfavorable commentaries widely circula
ted and generally believed, which might turn
out at laft to be completely wanting both in law
and juftice ? Or what chance could the focie
fy enjoy of feeing the mod flagrant violation of
its laws a [failed by its appropriate punifhment,
if garbled ftatements and abfurd commentaries
were widely circulated and generally believed,
which without having any foundation in truth,
might be calculated to acquit the offender of
tiie fait or extenuate the atrocity of his offen
ces ? From every member of the community
therefore whether be he fitting as a juryman at
the time of the trial, or whether he be deliver
ing his private opinions ’ere the opening of the
profecution, the accufed Sc the communii y have
each a right to expert that he fhould life eve
ry exertion to obtain a clear and fatisfailory
ftatement of the faifts ; that he fhould make up
his opinion on the bearings of tbrfe facts with
out favor or prepoffeftion ; and that in commu
nicating his opinions to others he fhould tranf
fer the very impreffion to their minds, which
exiftson his own: He fhould ftate no fac‘t
without connecting it with all the cir
cumftances which originally accompanied it ;
he fhould be cautious how he made a commen
tary upon them, without fupporting it by all
the reafons which decided lm own underftand
ing. If thef- he the duties of every member of
the community, peculiarly are they binding up
on every conductor of a public paper, who
(hould attempt to “catchthe manners living as
they rife,” and who brings the criminal ere he
has been tried in a court of juftice, before the
tribunal of the public. The ftatement* and o
pinions of fueh men, when compared with
thofe of any other individual, are generally en
titled to no higher refpe-ft, and yet hecaufe they
wield an inftrument of aftonifhing power, which
preferves their ideas in a more durable form,
and which difleminates them over a greater fur
face of mind, the individual opinions fometinus
of the worft and weakeft men in the communi
ty, are made to weigh the tnoft in the public
eftimation ; they ferve to modify the concllifi
ons of a greater number of minds, and to pro
duce a general prepofTcffion, which may not on
ly beat firft contrary to truth, but which may
afterwards prevent truth from re-a (Ter ting her
rights. Upon fitch men therefore how facred
is the obligation of touching upon the fituation
of an accufed individual with the tnoft delicate
circumfpeflion ! Let a public journalift he as
•native as he ple.tfes in collecting all the teftimo
ny ; let him expatiate eventominutenefsupon all
its details: this IS a right which lie not only
may, but which he ought to exerrife. But let
him be (paring in his flridtnres and commenta
ries !-—Tt is under this view of the Aihjert, lhat
the following fa£ts are Admitted to the reader,
and even they would never have been Aibmitted
bad they not been collected from a very refpec
table gentleman, who was himfelf a fprftator,
at the examination hcf<>rr the magiftrate. The
judgment of the reader vviil male its own con
clufiont.
On Thnrfday laft, ThomasI.ittlcpage, ofthe
county of King William, u as riding on the road
which led trom the Piping Tier to i!mover
town in the county oi Hanover, in company
I with a Mr. Whitlock ; when the latter t'udder
ly checked his horfe, and addrefled his compa
nion in words to the following tfled : “ Yonder
is King, 'l ake care, lie’ll Ihoot you.” “ On
no was t lie aulwer, “ he is too d-d a cow
aul.” 'The prediction, ho ‘ever, W'as too true.
Mr. 1,'ttlepage turned the head of his houl to
wards Mr. King, when the latter levelled tiie
gun which he held in his hand, and difeharged
it with too true an ami. The horfe on which
Mr. L. w'as mounted, immediately dropped and
foon expired. Three buck-fhot entered the
breaft of the unfortunate rider. That the wound
mufl have been mortal, appears from the decla
ration of thcfurgcoH, who examined and prob
ed it ; but death did not immediately enluc.
Mr. L. appeared at firfl only dunned by the
wound, and was recovering, when Mr. King,
\'.no nao keen hitherto damliug outlie other
fide of the fence, immediately eroded into the
road, and drawing a pocket piltol, completely
executed his purpofe, by prefeuting it to Mr.
I.’s head, and difeharging it in that (ituatinn.
1 he ball penetrated one liile of the Ikull and
came out at the other. Mr. King made no rf
t irt to efcape the invedigation of the kiw, and
lurrenilered himfelf into the power of the civil
magiftrate.
On lad Saturday his examination before the
magidrate took place. No effort was made to
ddprove mod of the preceding fa ids : but the
plea, on which he reded his defence, was juftili
cation. Many witnelfes were produced to
prove the hottile deligns of Mr. Littlepage to
wards him. It was proved that on the 4th of this
month, Mr. Littlepage had met Mi. King on
the fame road, hail affaulted him with a cudgel
and would have probably terminated his exist
ence, if his head had not been fuffieiently pro
tested by his hat. Several wituefies were ad
duced to prove, that Mr. L’s refentmmt was
not as yet fnhdued ; that he had threatened to
cudgel Mr. K. on the very firft oi cation when
they met, and that if he made the lead relidanee,
he was determined to fhoot him dead: tfi.it Mr.
King had heard of thefc menaces ; and that on
the very morning of their interview, Mr. L. had j
exprelfcd a refolution to make sle of a dick
wbkh he held in his hand, and a pair of loaded
piliols he had in his pocket, for the confumma
tion ot thefe deligns. The circumdances
which led to fueh fatal hodilitm are extremely !
voluminous, many of them , delicate for a
public paper, and very few 1 eievant perhaps to
tins melancholy cataftrophe. Iri« fufficicnt to
atld that Mr. King has been committed to jail
by the magidrate ; that he will be tried next Sa
turday, before a call court: and Jhoult! he be
con-mittd to further trial, that he will lie bro’t j
up to the did riel court, which is to fet in this '
city on tile Id of next month.
_ I
A CAUCUS.
ould that I liad the cxquifite imagination :
of a Titian or an Angelo, that I might" deline- j
ate the con ft itution and cunfcqiicnces of theft
irregular afl'ociations ! Would tliar f had even
language fufficiently vivid to defcribc the re-'
cent and indelible imprcfTions on my memory •
Such afTociations may fometimes he juftified
by the ir.oft impcrious'policy : And the max
im ot the Jefuits, is at leaf! true in politics <as it
is in fuperftition, that the end will fometimes
confecrate the means. When a gre t party is
about to lofe itfelf in impotent efforts for the
want of a common concert; when it is about
to fplit itfelf intofctfls & factions, on the choiceof
a candidate, or the adoption of fome mighty i
meafure ; the necefiity of the cafe may ftntftify
a Caucus. What then do I mean to convey ?
that thofe objetfls mull be valuable indeed,
which can jullify a rccourfe to lo improper an
expedient.
A Caucus is a fraction of a party drilled out
byaccident or by choice, who meet for the pur
pofc of deciding on fome lyftem of meafures,
which their individual effort would be unable
to accomplifh. Whatever be the object of
the afTociation, whether it be of a general or a
perfonn! nature and whatever be the form under
which they appear, whether in the broad day light,
in the view and with the approbation of their!
fed, or whether a petty poition meet in mid-'
night conclave : the fame principle runs through !
the whole of them. Every member has pledg- :
rd himfelf to throw his individual judgment in
to the general mafs ; and fpite of his previous I
nfletftion, in fpite of all thofe lights which ex-}
periences may filed upon hismind, he binds him
felf toacquiefce in the will of the majority.
In vain lias the Conftitution infured to hiirt
the free ufe of the elective franchife. In vain
has it enabled himto feletfl that man and lupport
that fyftem of meafures, which appear bell cr:l
culated to advance his own and his country’s
ill trie ft. The refolution by which lie has bound
himfelf to the altar, has annihilated all his pri
vileges ; five only the confolation of uttering
" itb his own lips the vote, which the majority
have impofed upon him.
And who can pretend to predict what will be
tie nature of this vote ? Who is there that can
dare to anticipate all ihe refulutions, which his
fellow-members of the Caucus, may determine
to fupport ? Is there a man who can pretend
to fathom the deep defignsof private ambition,
whofe influence may have originally collected
the meeting ; nr is there a man who will have
energy enough at all times to ft ill the waves of
a tempeft, which the collifion of fentiment and
the fervour of the moment may have excited ?
Who is there that can fay, before he leaves that
meeting, he may not have pledged himfelf
to fupport meafures, which may involve
the ruin of his country or his friends? Called
together perhaps for the very heft purpofes,
they are perhaps driven on to the muft deplo
rable defigns. Every refolution takes its irn
prellion from the moment ; and that moment,
a crifis of agitation, refentment or alarm, may
give its feal to the moft deftrinflivc meafures.
The reluctant noviciate may indeed ihrink back
from the defliny which awaits hitn ; and he has
the miferable comfort of recolletfling, that it
was his own choice which determined his defti
ny.
Of the individual it makes a flave: into fo
ciety at large, it is calculated to introduce tin
trenuine lpirit of defpotifm. What is the
ruling principle of a democratic or reprefenta
tive government ? That the greater part
of thr electors fhould give laws to the left.
Yet far different may be the mnfequence of
a Caucus. Suppofc a legifiative body to
confifl of 100 members; of whom fixty
are republicans. Thirty-two of thele errtft
themfelves into one of theft feels of illuminati.
A fyftem of meafures is laid before them, which
obtains the fatttflion and the vote of 17 only.
This fimple majority thus gives it law to the
tnmy-tivo, who are preient ; anti therein their
turn, command the votes of the remaining 28,1
not one of whom perhaps would be willing to
yield thrir individual fupport. What then is
the eonfequence : That 17 republiean mem
bers not only direct tbe conduct of the whole
party, hut impofe their fetter* upon a legiQa
tlire of 100 members. Vary thecin nmflanees,
by varying the form or the objects of the tau
i eus, and the fame refult, the fame reftrlint up
on the freedom ot envious, is cverliktly to c?*
|,ft* .
I ..is theory of binditijj up individual will,
| ind ftint-'iuirs the will of a whole pnrtv, by
dial of.i fm ill fra cl ion ; of orterimr up our hi fl
I rights on the altar of fuicide, i.fufccptible of in
j numerable applications. Thefc Caunifcs may
ippoar under a thoufand forms; and each of
thefe, ill lilies producing the general I rteirtc al
ready delineated, may lead to more fpecial con
f. epicures.
i.ven under i.8 very heft lorm, when the nta
ioriiy of the electors belonging to any partv,
have afiembled on fome public theatre,for fome
public purpofe ; fnch an honourable collection
even as this, is productive of p illion ami rnnfu
liou. Other bodies of a regular organization,
have particular forms to regulate their proceed
ings. The chairman vigilantly watches the
progrefs of the paflions, and reduces the difo
hedient members to order. Tlurc is a well
defined line of diferimination bet cen every
man, who has the privilege of fpcaking, and
thole to whom this power is denied. But fuch
is not the conAitution of a Caucus. Individual
paflion has here an unreftridted theatre ; and it
operates here with greater force, hecaufe the
men who differ in their wifties, are not diferimi
n tted by any great principles of action, which
throw a dignity over their feelings and lull
their paflions into repofe, by calling forth in
their vindication the faculty of the underAand
ing ; but they are men who differ from each ei
ther hecaufe they are animated by diff-rent
trieudIhipsand different h’tertfts, and who like
the mem hers of the fame family or the parties
in a civil war, derive new aulmofity from the
previous fimiiarity of their fentimi uts.
The unfortunate minority come at l *ft into
the dilemna, which has already been menti n
c<! : they mult either abandon tluir plighted
faith, (and infamy he on the head of that man,
who on ordinary occalions can meditate the
adt M or they muff defert the candidate and
meafure which they have appnved ; and *hey
muA fupport the one which had excited their
opoolition. Thus are they reduced to the
av kard fituation of oppofing that which they
approved, to fupport that which perchance
could never have obtained their aporobat n>n»
Nor even here does their duty terminate. They
pledge themfelves to fupport the caufe by eav > r
honourable effort. They are not to be the re
paflive converts of the crofs, which they have
placed upon their ne ks. They are not to
Hand like ffatues in the ranks, and merely fwtII
the catalogue of its funporters by their name
and their pri fence. But they .are to profs for
ward, whilft honour beckons on their crelt, and
they muA attempt to Air up within their veins
the reluctant current of enthufiafn.
W hat now is to he Arid of that lefs open and
dignified form of a Can us, which without any
public notification, retire > from the view of the
people, into lecret conclave : Into thrfeEieu
fii'ian myAeries no man enters, who has not
given foine fecret pledge or exhibited a deter
mined rtfolution to fupport fome favored pro
ject.
Such is the theory of a Caucus; fuch are
fome of the confequences of fome of its fores.
From this view, it will follow that the end
muff be valuable indeed, which can iuftify fuch
an expedjent. Perhaps fuch an obj^d did lately
exill in this city.
Tills clay reftorcs the Enquirer to nearly its oriAnrl
“I Peurance. 1 lie arrival oi our paper front the north
will enable us to fulfil our engagements with the pub
lic. For the enfuing month our paper will be publilh
ed three times in the week.
MARRIED—In this city, on the 11th inft. Wm
s"l Cabell Efq. of Anthsaft to tin verv jmiabie IV is
\Ctnls Sakau Blll Gamble, daughter c»F Col {
R.,bert Gamble.
RICH M O N D
ACADEMY L 0 T T E R Y.
i fti" ^ i.,ji day's drawing.
P> ize of 5(100 Dolls.—No. 3612.
Prize of 500 Dot’s.— No. 1220.
Prize of 300 Dolt,.—Net 151.
Prizes of 12 Dolls—No's. 15.53 3512 '78 Oftnq
705 2892 814 2937 3607 1578 219 21 It; 3524
109 463 199 784 48 PRO 1690 3fiJ3 mid 2730
2915 1279 3436 921 3623 415 lt'9 2927 1209
1290 3145 655 2985 412 2404 1650 1435 238 5
3101 2435 ISftl 2122 2580 1932 811 8-10 14-16
2427 1837 3589 1051 95 2811 S089 4.50 •!:'*)
2397 2953 92 493 3332 1736 1295 66| |
32.5 31 14 3032 2741 2460 245 715 3625 j.-pi.O
2>1 171 1963 1117 1523 2762 819 2372 2116
66 2120.
FOR CASH.
Will be fold for cafh, on Saturday the noth inft. at the
houfe of Mr. John Trabup, by virtue of a de^flof
truft from James Cheatham to the fubfcriber fo la
tisfy fundry debts therein mentioned.
ONF. forrclhorfe. three feather bedsard furniture,
and a negro man named Billy or Will—Sale to
take place at one o’clock.
ROBERT GRAHAM.
Manchefler, 19th March. eptd*.
/. o s r,
SOMF. where between Mr. Pullin’* rope-walk in
the old field, and the corner of the flreer at
Mefsrs. RufTell and Wallace’s grocery (lore, and the
market fipjare—A TEN DOLLAR NOTE. No. M9
of the United States Bank. Any perfon who may
find and return the fame to the printers hereof, will
be handfomety rewarded.
The public are cautioned again!! palling the above
note after this notice.
March 19. 11^
ADVERTISEMENT.
To be SOI.D to the higheft bidder, on a credit of
twelve month*,
FIVE TR ACTS of LAND, belonging to the cflate
of Thomas Anderfon, dec. viz :—Onr ns Camp
bell county, of 10!) acres, lying on both fid « of the
main road, on the branches of Beaver Cr< k* tl.is
trail tube fold at n*-xt April Campbell court, being
the 8th day of the month.
One in Botetourt entity off I COacres, lyingon Cataw
ba creek ; this traKtobe fold at next Aprd Bote
tourt court, being the 1 Ith day of the month ; thefc
two fales to he attended hy Mr. Anthony Dibrell, who
is hereby fully authorifed to ail for the executors of
thefaid Thomas Anderfon.
One of 400 acres, one of 147 acres, and one of .70
acres, lying in P,u kir.gbam county, the two former
on the waters of Rock llland creek, anti the latter
one on Irving’s ferry road. Thefe three lad tra<*|f
to be fold at ne\t May Buckingham court, being the
lflth day of the month. Bond with approved fe
mrity will be required, to bear imereft from the
dale, but if punctually p iid the intereft fhall be ren ifr.
ted.
HATH! ANDERSON, &
ROBERT RIVK3.
Ex'rs of Thns. A* vrfon, dec
Albemarle county, March 19, 1^0.7. uls.
FOR SA|,F,
\ FEMALE s» RVA NT, 3& yeaff of^. Sh.
i» a farr*pdr< f* and hoof- Itevant, aiul ia
I pcrfeidly honed. Apply at *hts office.
[ Match lit. (eTu.ilt.)