his nynn Mr. Tox, with a tender,
of 500Q guineas for the Copy-right of his <
jn.cnJed publication of ' the Hiftory of 1
tU* lleign of the Houfe of Stuart.' I
—* !
An account of the quantity of wheat t
rye tlour and Indian meal, infpedted t
in ■Jfbe city of Baltimore,'for the lalt quai*-t
ter ending the 30th June.
87,109 barrels wheat flourj t
5,15 2 half barrels do. * t
7,£22* barrels rye flour, t
28,183 barrels Indian meal, <
2,553 half barrels do. (
Publifhed by orde, * ;
* H. Moalk, Regifter* ;
' i
In the Britifli Houfe of Commons, mr.;j
jAiidhigtou moved on the 19th ot May, arjj
Addrefs to the king, which wa3 urtanUji
moufly agreed to, requeuing him to have
erected a monument to the memory of ge- 1
fieral Abercromby, on the fame day thanks <
Mfv-re voted to Admiral Keith, Sir Ri<chatd ]
Bickerton, See—And on the 20th lord ,
Hobart pre fen ted to the Lords a mefTage
from the king, dating that he had grant
ed to Lady Abercromby, the dignity of
Birouefs and a petition of 20001. a year.
On the 21ft, the guards, drafted for!
F.gypt", marched for Portfmouth. Six re- i
gunentsof cavalry, five of infantry, and a
Corns of artillery, comprile the reinforce- i
m'.ots under orders for Egypt, which are
to be convoyed by 3 Jhips of the line, with
frigates under the command, of rear-adnii- i
rai Pole.
TLLtTMiNATISIVfi
% Extract of a letter from Germany*
u As to the illuminati, ((vhom your, and
the Englifh fc rib bier 8 Confound with our
philofophers, but whom we think eflentially
different) we hear nothtng of them. Bar
ruel fluid Robifon's books have been trans
lated (as all Englifh and French books arc,
as foon as they are known,) but they have
met with univerfaf derilion. With us it is
probable that ajl the alarm about illumina
ti, is a uianoevre of the jefuits, who wifh
to depreciate, and render fufpedted all Ger
man literature, which is diametrically op
j>oled to their fccret plans of introducing
the ancient barfiarifin, and oppolitiorr to
the light of truth, in order that their hei
rare by may be reftored in the darknefs they
create. But we trull, the time of chivalry
»nd monkery is gone forever. I refer to
the reviews for the public opinion. " All
is at an end with Barruel, even in England,
as his great patron, Windham, is no longei
in power."
Extract of a letter uritten by rear admiral
Pa Crosse y captain general of the island
qj Guadafaupt and its dependencies, to
citizen, I.iot, commissary of commercial
relations, at Philadelphia.
" Colonial produce is here at a very low
•price, and thofe of the United States at a
very high value, Allure all Americans
that they cannot put too much confidence
in a commercial intercourfe with the ifland
of Guadeloupe—and I hope that thofe who
fiudl return to the United States with rich
cargoes fhall give,a juft idea of the kindnef?
with which we receive the Americans herf,
I i'alute you.
(Signed) " LA CROSSE."
Extract of a letter from St. Croix, dated
11 th ult.
u Since I left you at New York, we
£iave had a great change in our government.
On the Briti fli firft taking pnlTeffron, I was
in hopes they intended to adt with modera
tion ; but it feems it was only to find out
the real flate bf people's property, fo that
they might the more promptly fall on a
pi mto deprive every perion of as much as
they could lay their hands on. The gene
ral has been committing one adt of injuflice
after another for feveral weeks. Now, li
liippofe, he thinks he will not remain, long
with lis, and will therefore make a pufh at i
every thing he can, which you will fee by <
the alteration in the courfe of law publifh
ed in the inclofed newfpaper. Yon muftj
know tjiere are a numbt\j- of valuable,;
tftates in this country, which are indebted i
to the king lor money and fupplies in unpro- 1
dudlive lealons ; and fome indebted to fomt
Dutch merchants ; although the whole 1
fain is due, thofe merchants have been fails,
fied to receive the annual intereft. 'i'he
general has condemned all this property ;
and to get it out of the hands of the plan
tiers, he has put in foiiS* this fummary way
of execution by law, to fell thefe poor peo
ple's property. By the capitulation, the
Panifh Ih w fhould continue m lull force, ex
cepting •lie appeal fhould be made to the
king and council of Great Britain, in ft cad
of Denmark ; therefore, to felt their pro
perty would take a eenfiderable time of le
gal procedure ; bitt by this fpeedy method
.it wili be done at once, itnd ht finger the
cash. To be fure, this property will fell
for only what the negroes and movea
bles are worth, And ilo mari who in
tends to remain here, will purchafe ; but.,
there are enough vultures who followed
the expedition to take out the vitals of eve
ry tiling in their power.
" " The general firft fent a military guard
to many of thefe eftates, and took poffef- •
lion of all the produce, and fent it to
town. He yetterday iieized on the Burgh- :
«r council's books, and it is reported is
determined to diffolve that body, which is
an eftablifhment that has remained as long
as the Danes have had the ifland—it is
formed of e i ■;h t refpedtable planters, ap
pointed by the government and the people,
to make all the internal regulations of the
! ;(land-*to coljedt all public monies. In
thori, general Fuller is as nftich diliiked
here, as a Commanding officer can be. In
deed the adt which I lend you, is as del
potit as any thing recorded in the destruc
tive FrencU revolution-—to appoint as
judges three creatin es of lus own creating—
neither of whom have <ny claim to refpec
tabilitv-—to adt in any manner ho pleafes.
1 rather imagine he will find tome here who '
dare bring him to an Englilh bar, where a
jury will convince him of his cenfurable
condudl. /
" Speaking of tl>e Rritifhin this place, T
ifluft not forget to do juitice to colonel
Packelihaw of the 64th. who com
mands the troops—a man, as much efteem
'ed by all ranks here, as the other is diliik
ed. He is a father to his troops, and does
vvery thing in his power to alleviate diftrefs,
and make thing' 3 as eafy as poilible to the
inhabitants*
" The Britifh V.roops are dying very ra
pidly—eight or ten of a day at this place,
and nearly as many at Welt end, although
no yellow or other epidemic fever is ampogfl
them. Jt is inoftly complainte of the
bowels."
St. CROIX, June 13.
PROCLAMATION.
By brigadier general Francis Filler, rom
rnandantof the iiland of St. Croix, See.
7\i judge ft f Peed, Peter Appleby and Tho*
mas Elliot.
By virtue of 'he power, and authority in
me veiled, 1 hereby Order, authorife and
appoint you as conimiffiouers to adt and
hold a court of com million as hereafter
ipecified. In which cotirt is to be heard,
and tried all debts and demands proceeding
from the Dutch loan, and thole from the
royal loan, of whatsoever denomination,
! and to pals fentence againl't fuch debtors,
I which fentence fliall have full force to be
> executed and levied. The Courtis to be
I held at judge Hoftved's houfe, every Tuef
day and Friday, front 8 till 12 o'clock, and
r it is to be a definitive court; that is your
i fentence, or your tranfadtions, fliall not be
; fubjedt to an appeal.
Every and any perfon who is fummoned
to appear, fliall appear at tjiis court of com
i million, not excepting any perfotv, either
from their rank, or otherwife, lb that no
exccptio fori, (hall be regarded.
Evidences fhall be fubjedt to appear at
this court of comttli&on, liable to the fine
prAfcribed by law—».and you fliall be autho
rifed to fwear fuch ftvidences ; fhould you
differ refpedting 'the proceedings of the
court, or in giving fentence, it ig to be de
rided by a majority. No delays to be ad
mitted.
The tranfadtions..of the court to be held
in the Englifh language, fa that every per
fon may plead his own caufe.
The citation to be made out by the
court,, in the fame form as the reconciLiat
ing court citation, and a levy, and execu
tion is to take place without any proceed
ings, as this fentence which you give can
not be appealed—No other objections when
a levy is made, can take place, but what
refpedts the Iheriif's tranfadtions, which, in
cafe of any illegality committed by him, is
to be referre d to rue.
j No appeal of any levies proceeding from
iyour fentence fhall take place, and which
fentence or judgment fhall be given 24
hours after the adtion is taken up to a
judgment.
Given under my hand and feal, at go- ,
vernment houi«, St. Croix, this lOth |
day of June, 1801. s
By his excellency's
command. '■
H< nry Campbell, Sec.
• i
**•* "■ **~ *t.-» i
FOR SALE, |
A young Negro Girl,
About 15 years old—Apply at this office.
April 22, 1801. tf
At the Sale of Notf Residents FOft Taxss,
Agreeably to an Act of the Kentucky Assembly, we purchased, ct Frankfort in No
vember last, for a Company, the following described 1 t acts.
In Whole name lifted. quantity For whom en.. County and Water Quantity
Acres, tered, &c. Courfe purchafed
Philips and Young, xooooo Philips & Young, Scott & FraklinEagle i_rk. the whole
James Steele, 30000 Wm. Pollard, Hardin, Green river, do.
-Samuel Sackett 3600 A. Barbour, Bourbon Licking, do.
Richard Johnfon, ' loco R. Jehnlbnj Jefferfon, Floyd's Fork,* do.
Samuel Pearl, juo S. Pearl, Mafon, Farrows crcek, do.
Andrew Byrn, 500 Mafon, <30.
[Alexander Stewart, 500 Campbell, 1 do.
iDubartis Shepherd, 3000 £). Shepherd, Clarke, Kentucky fiver, 2900 aer,
John Archrr, 2000 J. Archer, Harrifon, Wiliiaois river, the whole
John Donnelly, 1400 Dopnell <5c Barr, Licking, do,
fame, 4000 Dozier & jiarr, Clarke, _ *999 acV.
fame, 26443-4 J Donnell, Mafon, * acr.
fame, 1231 Dozier and Barrj Mafwt, < 650 cr.
Lawrence Slaughter 375° L Slaughter, Mafon, 3500 acr*
Adam Banks. 100 A.yßanks, Mafon, 40 acr.
Richard Johnfoh, 300 R. Johnfori, Maion, 1 i^ o acr.
Flizaheth James, iooo W.Robifon & Co. Malon, j i? 0 acr.
Sc S.Nathans, 3000 Ridgley <Sc Ship, Franklin* » I »yoo act.
ji F. Harrifon. 663 J P; Hafril'oti. Shelby, | 39 acr .
As we are defirous that the Original owitcrs Of thele lands fhosltl kttbw who has become the
purchafersj and are willing to give them up to the proper claimaint* on receiving an adequate
eompenfation ; wc have thoUght proper to g>ve notice, that applications from .my perfon iritereft
cd, made before the ift of September next, will be attended to ; after that tftne we will not coa
fider ourfelves bound to give the former a proprietor preference, but wii! proceed to <k tiu beftwt
c?n with <iur puithafes. Letters addfelled to either of the fubferibers in poftage
will be anfweredi
C. BANK !, ■> Agents for
I HOMAS BCDLEY, jf the Company,
CHEAP LUMBER
FOR SALE, ]
;s By tht Subfbriber, on realbnable terms, cither by o
large or iniall quantities, at his Lumber Yards, 0
'' the north end of Lamberton, and at the old t (
lc Sturgeon Pond, above Richards't> wharf, d
A QUA Nl| IT OT n
i- ASSORTED LUMBER, viz.
e, One and 1-4 inch, I i~B, and I do. Yellow *
(1 pine heart boards—l inch pannel, I 1-4 do. for
([ floors, x do. common, white pine do—% do. "
7 1-4 and a 1-4 do plants, 1 do. 1-8, and , v
'' do. boards, black walnut—l do. pin:ic, 3 j
do. l-i do. pannel boards, bedllead (etts, j>->plar *
the whole of the above arc well fcsfon&i and
tit for ufe.}—-Clear heart pine, apd fap pina
ivhite oak, and bilihad, hemlock and wliite pine
(cantling, alforted—- bell kind three feet cedar *
ikingles, drelled and undrefltd, do. tw« feet
white pine do. ; do. 18 iiuh cyprefs do—Sedan r
rails—Alfo, white pine i'aWed rails—ihingling
and piaiitcring laths, ht-ft kind ; white oak waggon
timber—lap pine planks, Cap pine one inch boards, (
3-4 cedar, bsit kind, 3-4 white pine, 3,-4 iap
tl ptnc, feafoned weather boards—A quantity of
|f ' handfom* chtfnut pailings, la wed x by 3 inches
; and from 4 to 16 feet long, for garden fence, &c. j
lu A quantity of cheliiut oak polls, drefled and
1 uniirelfcd; a quantity of cherry boards, a quantity ®
of large white oak joice, a quantity of ehclnut
g polls—joco feet of neat beach fcantling for tool
K . (locks —5000 feet of fickamore lcautling ior 11
t) oedileads ; 2 inch white ouk plank ; x inch white *
oak boards, 3-4 do. do. do.—aj,ooo tect luperior
s ' cherry boards and plank, 3,0C0 do, ry clear
* c 1 inch white pine plank, ,3,000 do. handfome *
beaton wwod bedllead, letts leafoned, 100,000 €
prime North Carolina lhingles, a quantity of afli J
, f j plank, 150 tons pldiiter Pari*, warranted, 3,000
bulhels btft Virginia pit coal, aoo bulhel cleans *
houfe land , ,'
Je ihe lubfcriber intends, eftablifhing a Lumber
Yard at the Federal City of Walhington, »vhich
'd he will kf-ep regularly fupplied as above-» Any
[j. quantities may be agreed for by contract, delive
cr table,as the purchafermay wifli, provided that the
place of delivery may be com eatable by water
with a navigable vcfTel— Any quantity that may
be ordered for (hipping abroad, lhall be iupplisck J
** wirh punctuality and diipatch, agreeable to
IC order. «
i- Gentlemen who are or may be building—as
, L , well a 9 carpenters who may be under or may *
u , enter into contracts to build and fiirnilh the j,
' materials, will find it well worth their attention
to apply as above—Applications may be made 9
by letter (poll paid) or otherwils, to the lub- B
fcriber, or left with Wm. and Anthony M. c
d Buckley, orlknj. W Morris and Co. merchants, j,
Philadelphia. t
d
Also for Sale or to Let, a
t- A large commodious Dwelling Houfe, with
j. buildings complete, and lVom three to ftven
)_ cres of land—Two fmull do. with lots thereto-
Alfo, a ftnall Store near the river—All laying in
the village of Lamberton
n NAIHAN COMBS. *
it d
a
11 N. B. A Screw Jack to let, that raifes from 1
is xo to 40 tons by hand—a conftant fupply of
plaifter and Smith's Virginia coal. f a
n Lamberton, Newjerfey, (on Del.) j,
January ig, ISOI. twtf
! d For Sale and to R( nt,
TWO elegant two (lory Brick DWELLING
HOUSES, fituate on the Couth fide of Perm /
fylvatiia Avenue, a little to the weft of the Pre
lident's Square. F.ach houfe contains two parlours
and paflage on firft flaor ;on fecond, two rooms 1
s with fire-places, and well finifhed garrets, cellars Jb
and kitchens. In the front of the buildings ex
tending to the avuiue, is a neat yard planted 0
with trees, palifadued, &c. Ihe fituation, in
point of health and contiguity to the public build* n
ings, is e<jual to any in the city, and is well ri
adapted for private families, or to accommodate P'
genteel Boarders. The title is indifputable. The 01
terms will be moderate for part cafh or flavts
For particulars inquire of OWEN ROBERTS,
on the prcmife«, or of
I TIfOMAS HF.RTY, Conveysnc«if U
City of Walhington, May aj, 18&1, xy
M AILS
FOR Orange Court Houfe, Virga. Charlottef.
ville, Virga. and tor all other offices weft
y or of Charlottefvifle; for the fo H thern part
s, of Kentucky ; the Indiana and Mifliffippi i
d tories, and Tenneflee will be clofed every Mon
day st J 1 M. until the ill day of Novemhtt
next.
MAILS for Montgomery C. Hi Maryland,
IV I'rederick Town and other offices in Maryland
, r weftwa\jd of Frederick Town ; for Chambffnw.
j burg,. Penn and all othc< offices in Pennfylvanii
d welt of Chambersburg 5 for the Northwestern
3 Territory and Kentucky, will be clofed evarv
ir Friday ak 5 P.M.
d THOMAS MUNROE, r. m.
Ie Poir-OirpicE, ■>
ic affiington City, June 30, 1801. J 6t
I . NOTIC E.
"T following negroes have been committed
>" <V t0 &30 ' ° f Waftin K ton County, Diftrgft.
s fo Columbia. Their ow»«:rs are requefted tp
p' (om « anrf releal'e them, otherwife they will bm
ji fola JS the law direds, to pav'prifon txpences.
ss ROBERT—The property ol R lc hard Sinfctd,
c of Orange county, Virginia; five lect fix inch*
d high, about 24 years of age, has 011 a white n*»
gro cotton jacket and trowfers, confiderabir
it worn. '
JOHN BUTLER—(Who iays he is a free
-3f wan) about five feet ten inches high, 24 yearn of
tc age, has on an old blue cloth coat, and diab
trowfers.
aNDRF.W Five feet four inches high, 33 or
le * ears a K e ' on an blue coatand a pair
10 ot (>l <l t'egto cotton brceches j lays he is the r»-
fl, P crt y Mr. Edward Gantt, of Berkeley c un
,o ty. Virginia.
n# o u PETPRS—The property of Mrs.
Rormdell, of Calvert county, Maryland ; about
er five feet fix inches high, 53 years old, has on a
h white negro cotton jacket and trowfen, '
ly DANIEL C. BRENT.
e . Marffial of the dirtrirt of Columbia,
xe April 27. , ,tf
:c Ei Chancery, May 31, )HG :.
d O N !, Pr lication t0 the Chancellor by petition
in writing of Clement Chamberlain of
Montgomery County, praying the benefit of the
«' Art for the relief offundry inlolvent debtors'*
" pa fled at the laft feffion, on the terms therein
> mentioned, and a fchedule of his -property and a
lift of his creditors fo far as he can afcer am the
fame on oath, being annexed fo his petition ;
c ?nd the fa id Clement Chamberlain at ht ilntt
o! presenting his petition having produced u tJie
' chancellor the aflVnt in writing of P nn • f
*' *>'* creditors as have due to them accord:r', to
the lift aiorefaid, the amount of two thirds I>f rite
dents due by him at the time «f paffinr thi laid
art
h It is thereupon adjudged and ordered th« the
n faid Clement Chamberlain, by ciufi:; K , copy of
_ this order to be Inferted in a newip.per in the
n City ®f Walhington, once in each of three fuc
eeffive weeks, and by ferving a copy thereof on
anyone or more of his creditors before the firft
day of July next, give notice to his creditors t»
appear in the chancery office on the eighth dav
of July next, for the (prpofe of recommending
fomc perfon to be truftee for their benefit, on rh#
faid Clement Chamberlain's then and there tak
ing the oath prefcribed for delivering up lit
property,
Tcft.
Samuel H. Howajb, Reg. ct. can.
5 »
; One hundrt d.Dollars Kewardi
9 A T 1 ER > fent b y ma 'l from Louifvill*,
18 f thlß ftatc ' to the honorable Abraham
■S Baldwin at the City of Walhington, containiiw
. ONE i HOUSAND DOLLARS, the property
A of this Untverfity, was robbed of its cont«nu
n fome time in February or March laft'. Ihe Sc
_ natus Academicuo have authorifed me to offer a
II reward of ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS to arry*
e perfon who will jrjve information of the perfim
e or perfona concerned in th« above robbery l£
1 that he ot they may be profecuted t» tonviftion
l ( 111 any court of the United States.
JO SI AH MKIGS, President.
< Univcrfity of Georgia, 7
Jun» ij, IZOI, J;