eon, had gained over foirtc of the principal offi
cers, who, on the 24th of Uft May, delivered a
petition to General St. Cyr, demanding,“ that
as their men refuted in an ariftocratical or rather;
defpotic country, where lihcrticide principles
may eafily he I in hi bed, a new oath to liberty and
equality, and fidelity to a Republican Govern
ment might be taken.” St. Cyr (aid he would
tranfkrit their demand to the Firlt Conful. [ Re
fiorts fume time lince reached America from Ita
y, Haling, that many of the French troops there,
voted againft Bonaparte’s being made Emper
or.]
The State-coach for Bonaparte’s coronation,
is making at Paris, it will it is fuid, coft 300,000
livrcs.
It is communicated, in private intelligence :
from Paris, that the fame Tribunal w’hich tried (
Georges and Moreau will be fnortly called to- {
Sether for the trial of the Ex-nobles Fauche '
lord, De la Rochcfoueault, and De Beaumont, [
who have been feveral vears prifoners in the
Temple. The objed of this meafure is, no,
doubt, to implicate tlie Generals Lecourbe and
Macdonald, whom the Gortican views with a |
nioft fufpicious eye.
An Extrad of a letter from Ld. Nclfon to a
friend in London fays, “ The good people in
England are totally miftaken in fuppoling that
I wilh to blockade the port of Toulon. On
the contrary, it is my will], and the wifh of my
brother failure, to catch the cuemy out of that
harbor, that we may once more receive the
thanks of our country.”
PARIS, July 20.
There is a kind of fraternity between the
Engliih troops in India, and the Ruffian troops
in Perlia. While the former bravely defeat de
fenceless Mahi attas and Hindoos, the latter no j
lefs bravely conquer and difperfe fome difarmed I
friends of liberty in Georgia. The province I- '
miretia has been occupied by the Ruffian foldi
ers, without refiftance, under pretence, that its
mountainous fituation was favourable as a refuge
to robbers, when in fad it was the laft refuge
for liberty in the Perfian empire ; as, for thirty
Centuries before no foldier of a defpot, ever da- ;
red to pollute it with his preft nee. The great ■
.1 * n . t r . • r v
umaiiL^DUi uii.ii; UHiiuiicn uuiKd x>ui cij\din iu
lofc fight both of their real and relative value &
confcqucnce ; and while we are here combat- •
ing and intriguing for i'omc few towns, villages,
or rivers, of no fignificance, the Englilh anti Ruf
fians are conquering provinces in the Eaft, the
revenues Of which are greater than thofe of
mull kingdoms in Europe. We arc butchering
each other for pebbles, while they are decora- .
ting thetnfelves with real diamonds. The year
ly revenue of the late Englifh conquefts in India,
is greater than thofe of the kingdoms of Pruffia,
Naples, Sweden and Denmark, together ; and
the revenues of the Ruffian ufurpations in Pcr
fia amount to more than the Swedilh and Da
niffi monarchs. We have only one hope, that
thefe deftroyers of the human race and enflav rs
of mankind will finally quarrel among them
felves, and that his majcfty our emperor will be
called on as an umpire to fettle their difagree
mer.ts. [yournalJes Defenfcurs.~\
In the beginning of June, feven Spanifh ffiips
anchored before Conltantinople. They intend
to fail for the Black Sea, and to load again there.
Formerly the Spaniards received this producti
on by French fnip3 ; but thanks to their neutra
lity, and to the war, they fcem now determined
to procure it themfelves by trading dircCtly in
the Levant.
The EleCtor of Bavaria has ordered an en
campment of 15,000 men to be formed next
September n^ar Munich.—His highnefs is per
fectly in the right to be on his guard, whilft
Auftria has fuch an unnecefiarily numerous body
of troops on foot under pretence of manoeuv
ring.—The protection, alone, however of the
Emperor Napoleon, is more than fufficient to
prei'erve his Highnefs from the ambitious views
both of Aultria and Ruffia, and ail Europe toge
ther.— [_Le Citojrn Francois.
The Emperor of Ruffia, or rather his Minif
ters and Counfellors, has every where emifla
ries, who endeavour to feduce the inhabitants
of other countries to emigrate and fettle in Ruf
fia. To people thofe walls dcfartaof its inhof
pitable climate, Helvetia liasfnrnifhed its quota,
and fome hundred citizens of our departments
near the Rhine, of the ci-dc-vant palatinate, have
followed their eximple. The F.mperor has,
therefore, ordered all r.is Prefects, Commanders,
and Police Commiil'aries, to put a (top to this
emigration, by not permitting any perfon in
future to crofs the Rhine, without a pafs from
the Miniver of Police, Fouche.—Every Foreign
or French Emiflary, who is difeovered in at
tempting to engage the people to e migrate, is to
be immediately tried as an embaucheur, and
(hot.
The Minifter of the Marine and of the Colon
ies has wrtten, on the 6th of this month (July)
to the Prefect of the Arrondifleincnt, at L'Ori
ent, the following Letter :—
“ The exhaufted ftate of the maritime iufcrip
tion, Monftcur, and the acknowledged impofli
b’lit V of completing in featnen, the equipments
of the veflels of Government, have determined
his majefty to appoint, ai you have already been
informed, that the detachment of the land For
ces fliould be embarked in order to fupplv the
the deficiency offailors. In orderto derive from
this meafure all the advantage that can he ex
pired from it, his Imperial Majefty is inclined
to excite iiie emulation ui ihe troops by encou
ragements proportioned to the fervices which
they (hall perforin on Uiard : and thefe are the
d'fpofitiors that he has fixed upon in this ref
peft, counting from the 1ft Thennidor, year 12 ;
and during the courfe cf the year 13, on the
firft of every month, will he diftributed prizes
of encouragement for the land troops who fliall
b- embarked on board the veflels and armed
frgat rs.
“ The firft prizes fliall be eight francs. Thefe
fhall be decreed to the Soldiers who being well
acquainted with the ufc of the oar, formed to
t ie management of guns, and knowing well how
to manoeuvre among (hallows, fliall be in a con
dition either to ret f or let the fails.
“ The fecoiid prizes fliall he of four francs.
Thefe fhall be Appointed to the foldicrs who !>c
ing acquainted with the management of the oar,
fliall be alfo well (killed in the fervice of the
guns, anti fliall have made themfelves remarka
ble in this rcfpedl.
** The third pri/.esfhall He three francs. Thefe
ftiatl He decreed to the foldicrs who fhall apply
themfelve* with zeal to the exercift of the oar,
and fhall l*o accounted rood rowers, ten prizes
! of each fort fhall b< diftributed among caery
hundred men embarked on boarJ a velfel or a
frigate.
“ If the number of troops embarked fliould
pot be under one hundred, then the prize of fuch
kind fliall br reduced in proportion.
“The lift of Soldiers judged 'vnfthy of the
prizes fliall be determined by the Captain Com
mander of every vefTcl or frigate.
“The lift fliall be read on the ift of each
r...
es didribute J before the crew and the troops
embarked.
“ Mention fhall he made of the pi ire* diftri
buted, as well upon the roll of the fliip’s crew,
as on that of the troops embarked.
“ The Captains Commandant of vefTels and
frigates may reduce the number of prizes of e
verv kind, if they know that among the foldicrs
embarked, a futficient number eannot be fo well
didinguilhed as todeferve that the whole of ’hi?
prizes fhould be diftributed.
“ The prizes of encouragement diall be paid
from the marine fund.
“ It is underdood that the troops of marine
artillery embarked fhould not participate in
thefe prizes, as their pay is larger than that of
the infantry of the line, fince the regulation of
the 15th Floreal year 11, made an addition of
three francs to the pay of the gunners who
fhould have attained the higher manoeuvres,
and ftnee, at any rate, thefe troops are, by the
Conditution itfclf, fpecially attached to the fca
fervice, they ought not to be allowed to enjoy
the reward granted for the sxtraordinary fcrvice
that is required from the land forces embarked
for the abidance of the crews of the vefTels.
“ You will not fail to co-operate, as far as
you are concerned, Monlicur, to procure the
execution of the difpofitkms contained in this
letter, which ougVt to be regidered for infpetfi
on and notified in all the ports of your arron
di.Tement, where it may be ufeful that they
Ihould Ik- known. I falutc you,
(Signed) « DECRES.”
FRANKFORT, July 12.
The French privateer from Ancona, which
lately attacked an Englibi blip from Malta, at
the entrance of Trieb harbour, is detained by
the Audrian governor, until fatisfaftion is ob
tained for fuch a violation of the laws of neutra
lity.
Though the Dutch Ambabador Sehimmel
pennink has orefented his credentials at Paris,
the French Ambabador to the 3atavian Repub
lic has not yet obtained any new ones, which
caufe many to think that Tome change will t ike
place in the Batavian government, and that
Schimmelpenniiik will occupy one of the princi
pal places.
July 17.
the 14th inftant, about 11 at night, his
Swedifli majefty arrived here unexpectedly from
Carlsruhe. He had palfed through Darmftadt
incognito, and yefterday prince Cariftain of Ilefle
Darmftadt, caine hither to him. His majefty’s
rout to Bohemia, will be by Wartzburg to
Prague, Topita, Carlfbad, Sec. His majefty is
accompanied by Baron Lagerbjelk, firft cabinet
feeretary and chamberlain ; the Queen remains
at Carlsruhe.
BRUSSELS, July 22.
The Emperor Napoleon arrived at Boulogne
on Thurfday, accompanied by feveral great
men and generals.—His arrival was announced
bv repeated difeharges of cannon. The camp
at Compiegne has already manoeuvred before his
majefty, and this will be followed by the other
camps. On Thurfday or Friday next the em
prefs is expeCted at Bruftels, on her way to Aix
la-Chapelle. Their majefties will meet here to
return together to Paris.
Within fourteen days fixty-eight gun-boats
and 67 tranfports have palled here from Flufh
ing bound to Oftend ; the laft tranfport carried
the depot of the Batavian Mariners, coming
from Ilclvoeluuys.
GOTTENBURGH, Tulv 2S.
By private letters from Peterfburgh, received
by the way of Hamburgh this morning it ap
pears that a war between the Ruffians and
Turks is determined upon, in which cafe it is
thought France will affift the latter, which may
lead to very important confluences. The em
peror of Rufiia has fet off for the Crimea, to in
fpeCt the armaments going on there. Th- Ruf
fian charge d’affaires has left Paris.
FROM FRENCH PAPERS.
Milan, June G, (17 Pruirial.)
The annual feflival of the Republic has juft been
celebrated herewith the greateft pomp. * Marriage
portions were bellowed on thofe girls who have more
than one brother in the army. A general Illuminati
on took place aad a ball was given gratis at the theatre
of la Canobia. The play of Tliefeus was reprefented
at that of Sc.tla, in which was introduced a lyric feene
alluding to the return of general Bonaparte into Italy,
and to the different factions over which the genius of
that illuftrious charader has triumphed ; laftly Me
dals were diflributed, after the defign of Appiani ce
lebrating both the Feflival of the day, and the difeo
very of the laft Confpiracy.
Rjstisbon, June 30.
In this day s fittings of the Diet a letter from the
Baron de Reden, electoral minifter of Brunfwick Lu
nenburgh was read, in which he recalls to the recol
leftion of the Diet the declaration he delivered to it
on the 22d Auguft laft, and remonftrates anew a
gainll the occupation of the Eleftorate of Hanover by
the French troops. At all times (this letter fays) H.
B. Majefty has feparatcd his relations as a Sr'afe of
the Empire, from thofe of his crown. This diftinftion
has been admitted and acknowledged, as well hy the
Germanic corps as liv France herfelf, during the laft
war, after the concluliou of the treaty of Campo For
mio, and hy the treaty of I.uneville. Tt is then a
g'inft every principle of juftice that the French go
vernment has taken poffeffion of th > Oe-min pofTi-fTi
ons of H. M. comprehended in the peace, and the
confequences refulring from which arc incalculable.
.I. B. Mujefty E left or of Brunfwick I.unenburg,
expefts from the equitable fentiments ofhU Co-Eftafes.
an adoption of fuch meufures as may deliver his faid
poffcllious, front the evil they labour nn^?r? nnrj n-«
cure them the benefit of peace, to which they have
fo jtift a right, according to the conftitution of the
Empire. His excellency concludes by recommending
tffe affair to the Diet, and entreating the ininifters to
ufk for the neccfTary inft ructions of their refpeftive
courts in order that they may come to a decifion on
the fubjeft with the leaft jw.ftible delay.—There is,
however, every roafon to helieve that this new retnon
llrance will be treated in a fimilar manner with the
firft, viz. tluit the Diet, will not take it in confi
deration.
July 20.
1 o day at the exprefs requeft of the envoy for the
elefturof Brunfwick, (the King of England) the pro
tecol on the Ruffian note, was opened in the college*
of eleftor* and princes, and the eleftorate of Brunf
wick, and city of Bremen gave their votes. •
In the rote given on the part of Hanover, on the
fubjeft of the Ruffian note, his Britannic Maicfty, at
eleftor of Brunfwick, Lunenburgh, expreffes his full
approbation of th'1 part taken by the Eninerrr of Ruf
fin, and propofe* that his Imperial Ruffian Majefty
fhould he requefted, by an aft of the Diet, to take
l«ch meal'urcs as in his wifdom he fhall judge proper
to procure a fuitahie and fatisfaftory explanation from
the French government. His Majefty, at the fame
time, reminds the Diet of the more important an<l
dangerous violation of the rights of nations, the Trea
of I.uneville, and the fecurity of the German Em
pire, hy the forcible feizure, occupation, and pofTcf
flon of Hanover, His majefty's German territory
without any declaration of war.
Brxvr, July f.
Ir the letter from the Minifter Talleyrand to Mr
de Maillord.oz, concerning fhe dfftnrhances now ap
peafe.l in the Canton of Zurich, and which war- presen
ted to the Diet, the following parage is worthy ol
remark:
M H. M. the Emperor will never have any thing
more at heart; than to contribute towards ftrength
ening the tranquillity of Switzerland, lu confeqiiencc
therefor.* of the information he has received that ad
drrfles were handed about iot»cerivng a union of Swit
zerland to France, he hrs ifttiert orders that they may
be feized, being firmly decided to prevent every one
upon the French territory from violating the aids of
mediation and from difturbing that good order, to the
re-eftabtiihmenr of which His Excellency the L.andam
man has fo powerfully exerted his efforts.
The comrr.illion for the liquidating of debts has pre
fented the fruit of its labours to the Diet. It has
found means to reduce the twenty millions of debt to
four, \vh ch now forms the lura total of the public
debt in Switzerland.
Genoa July 4.
The French miuidcr Sallicetti, is gone from this
city to Paris.
In a Milan Journal is the following article :—“
According to the laft accounts from Rome, the Pope
has been applied to furnilh Cardinal Fcfch with the
neceffarv full powers to crown, in his name the Em
peror of the French.
Madame Bonaparte, the mother of the Emperor
Napoleon, is at prefeut ar Falceti, with her fon l.ucien
Bonaparte.
ITALY, Julv 8.
The Chevalier Aidon, from Naples, Mas arrived at
Palermo , where he has been received by the Gover
nor lieutenant-general prince County, with great dif
tindfion. The penfion of the late miniftcr is 10,000
ducats.
The French envoy at Florence, General Clark has
given in his new credentials.
According to fome accounts an embargo has been
laid on foreign fliipo in fcveral of the harbours iu the
Black Sea.
Petersburg. July 8.
The papal Arnb:iff»dor Arezzo, left this city
on the 2dinft. in confequence of what has puffed at
Rome.
Switzerland, July 10.
The deputation which has been appointed to con
gratulate the emperorof the French ouhis acceflion to
the Throne, has fet out for Paris; the late Landam
man d’Alfry is at its head.
Vienna, July 18.
The French Ambaffidor here, Compagny, has re- j
ceived difpatches from Conftantinople by a courier, ]
who we are affured, carries the congratulations of the [
grand Segnior to Bonaparte on his advancement to the 1
imperial dignity. The French Ambaffador h is not,
yet received his new credentials, nor have any been j
font to our new ambaffador at Paris, Count Cement- '
zeL i
J
Constantinople, June 27. I
The report that English ftvps have been forbidden I
to enter the Turkifh harbours finds little credit.
According to the accounts from Egypt, there had
been a riot and battle between the crews of the Tur- I
kifh fquadron ly:ng at Aboukir and Armants. The
Commander of the Turkifh fquadron and feveral
Greeks belonging to his ffcifio were killed.
Legion of honor.
[On th« 14th July, the members of the I.egion of Ho
nour took the oath preferibed. The following par
ticulars refpefling that infiitution are from a Paris
paper of the fame date.]
On the 11th July the Emperor Napoleon iffiied the
following decree :
“ 1. The decoration of the members of the le
gion of honor fhall confift of a fiar with five double
rays.
^ The centre of the fiar furrounded with a crown
of oak and laurel, fhall prefent the head of the empe
ror with this legend; Napoleon Emperor of the
French ; and on the other, the French Eagle holding
the thunder holt, with till* legend : Honor and
Country.
3. The decoration fhall he enamelled in white : it
fhall be of gold for the grand officers, and of fllver
for the legionaries : it (hall be worn at one of the
button holes of the coat and fattened to a black and
red ribbon.
4. All the members of the legion of honor fhall at
all times wear their d«*cor»tl<1h ; the emperor alone
■hall wear either the one or the other indiferiminate
•y
5. All fentinels fhnll prefcnt their arms for the
grand officers, commandants, officers and legiona
ries.
6. The grand officers, commandants, officers and
legionaries fhall receive their decoration at the fame
time as their diploma, in the extraordinary fittings de
termined by the articles VII and X VI! of the J 3 Mef
fidor of the year lO. They fhall neverthelefs wear it,
without waiting for one of thofe fittings, when the
grand chancellor fhall have addreflcd it for them, and
in confequence of a particular order from his Imperial
majefty, to the chief of the Cohort, or to another I
grand officer, commandant, or officer delegated for
this purpofe by order of the emperor.
7- Whenever the grand officer, the commandant,
the officer or the legionary for whom this delegation
will take place, fhall belong to a civil or military corps,
the decoration fhall be delivered to him in the r anie
of the Emperor, in prefence of the corps afiemhled.
A decree of the 4th Germinal (34th March)
grants to the legionaries of the legion of honor retir
ed from the army, not admitted to the hofpital of
the legion, and occupying no civil port, a gratification
of 15 franks which fhall be augnteuted, according to
their age, their charges, and the population of the
town they inhabit, as far as fix tenths of the above |
fum.
i he rrencn government, palled under date of the
24th Ventofe, (11th March) an arrete of which the fol
lowing are the principal article*:
“ I he title of member of legion of honor fliall be
forfeited by the fame catifes a* thofp which occafion
the forfeiture of the title of French Citizen, according
to the article 4 of the conflitution.
“ The exercife of the right* and prerogatives of
member of the legion of honour, fhall be fufpended
by the fame caufes a* thofe w hich fufpend the right* of
French citizen, according to article 5 of the coiiliituti
on.
“ The grand judge, the minifler of war & marine,
(ball tranlmit to the grand chancellor copies of all
judgement* in criminal, correftional and police affairs
wiiich regard the member* of ttle legion.
“ The coimniffarie* of government at the criminal
Tribunal, and the reporters at the council of war,
cannot inflidl any unworthy penalty upon the mem
ber of the legion, nnlefs he fhall have been degraded.
“ For this degradation, the Prefident of the tribu
n d, upon the requifition of the Comrniffary of govern
ment, or the prefident of the council of war, upon
the rei|tbfition of the reporter (hall pronounce im
mediately after the reading of the judgement, the fob
lowing formula ;
“ You have been wanting to honour,! declare in
the name of the Legion, that you have ccafed to be
a member of it, Stc. &c.”
For no Km* who may be appointed members of
the legion of honor, fhall be admitted and not received.
Fin y (hall wear the decoration, hut they (hall not take the
oath prefcrilted to the legionaries; they fhall not be com
prized in the number fix d for the different ranks of
the legion of honor; neither (hall they enjoy the politi
cal right* attributed to the members of the legion by
the Organic SenatusConfultum of the 2Kth Fk>r cal year
12.
The Chef-1.ieux of the cohort* of the legion are
Fontatnbleau : the abbey of Saint-Waaft, of Arras ;
the abbey of St. Peter, of Ghent, the Chateau of
Hrulh, the Chateau of 3everne, the palace, otherwife
the Hates of Dijon ; the ancient archbifhoprie of Vien
na, idem of Aii; the ancient Bifhoprie of Beziers,
the hotel of Malta at Touloofe, the ancient biffioprie
of Agen, the abbey of Saint-Maixent, the chateau of
Craon, the abbey of Bee, the chateau of Chambort
and the chateau of la Vennerie.
A fccond arrete of the Grand Council of the fame
Legion ha* eflablifhed a committee of that Legion,
which fliall unite in the Great Chancery every time
that it (ball be convoked by the Grand Chancellor
who (hall be the prefident, this committee (ball give
it* opinion upon all affair* communicated to it by thi,
great officer. The Great Council has appointed to
form the Committee confuiurion, M. M. Abrial,
Senator ; Bigot-Preamencu, Couiifillor of State ;
j Cluibert, director of the veterinary fchool at Altfcrt;
I FleurifU,C'ounfellor of State; Francoi»(de Neuchuteiu)
Senator; Gondoin, of the National tnilitute, of the
! lection of architecture ; Jaubert, Tribune; Lacuee,
1 Counfellor of State ; Simeon, Tribune ; Trnochet, Se
nator ; Wimar, Senator ; all members of the Legion
of Honor.
LONDON, Augufl 4.
On the 80th ult. M. D’Oubeil, the Ruffian
Charge des Affaires in France, had received a
courier with difpatches, which required an im
mediate anfwer ; he therefore went directly to
the Office of the Foreign Department, where
he was informed by M. Callard, its Chief, ad
interim, that the Emperor being on the con ft,
ar.d Talleyrand at the waters of Bourbon d’Ar
chambeau, until further orders from the Empe
ror, the communications could not be anfwered
—thougli they would be received and for
! warded to his Majefty, whofe determination
I fliould be lent to M’Oubeil, as loon ns obtained.
It will be fcentliat the ahfence of Bonaparte ami
his Minifter, at the moment when a courier
from St. Peterlburg was expected, with the
Emperor’s ultimatum, is merely a political
trick to gain time, as, fliould the month of An
guft pafs in ternporiling, and without any open
rupture with Ruffin, the feafon will be too far
advanced for the Ruffian naval and military for
ces to co-operate with England this year ; at
lead, upon a large feali ; and, during the win
ter. changes may occur of which the Corfican
will take advantage, eithtr to embroil his oppo
fers, or to bring about a pacification with them.
ExtraS of a letter dated Dublin, fuly 19, 1804.
.Your favor of 26th Die. with the enclofure
came fafe* to hand, and hope with the bit fling of
God to be feeing you in your country, for the
fituation of thefe countries are row become fo
critical from the condition of the people and
their contiguity to France, that I fear footer
or later we mult fall a prey to them, their irn
menfe line of coaft, together with their extent
of country and the multitude of people at their
command, that I think fome time or other they
wv- in.in) iui us , wc may ai preient
dely them, hut from the vad number of men of
war now building in all their ports, they will
fhortly have a great fleet, and what do they
want but that to convey th. ir great armies to
our ihores At this moment ifthey wereto make
good their landing I am convinced we could
not ftand before them, from their being vete
rans, and their great fuperiority in dilcipline,
particularly in thig country, where one partl
c.liiar irritated and ground down by re
ligion, being made the ftalking horfb of policy,
they would join them to a man—what is very
extraordinary, we are given to know hy govern
ment, that at this, moment we are at the point
of another rebellion, notwithdanding the num
berof examples made here lad fummer; we
are openly affured that there are upwards of
800 emifiaries amongd us now all in the pay of
France, one of whom (the fird) was taken up
lad week, and is now in the cadle ; fo you fee
how difagreeably we are fitua*ed between a fo
reign and domedic enemy. I believe the long
threatened invafion will be attempted this month.
Admiral Cornwallis (who lies off Breft) has ,
fent for all the veflels of war able to put to da
to join him immediately, as the enemy were a
bout putting to fen and with as fine a fleet as,
they have had this long time;thefe confidera
tions have induced me to look to your country
as the only fit place for me to remove to.
Every thi'.g advances in price, beef 5d.to 8d.
mutton7d. to Rd.pork 4d. to6d.bacon9d.to lod.
per lb. wheat 36s. per barrel, oats 20s. barley 18s.
but we have a promifing harvefl which will we
hope reduce thefe prices.—Aurora.
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE.
LIFE OF WASHINGTON.
AFTER an interval of fome weeks, the pub
lic have been favoured by the appearance of the
lccond volume of this intereding work. Gib
bon fays it is the peculiar advantage of Englifb
literature, that the fame of a hook read with ap
probation in London, immediately fprrsds to
the fhores of the Delaware and the Ganges.
Of the work coming from the pen of Mr. Mar
diall we may fay, it will immediately have its
readers from the lakes of St. Mary’s, from the
woods to the ocean. What can be fo intend
ing to Americans as the eventful hidory of their
own empire,'the recorded patriots. In the pa
ges of Mr. Marfhall the aged fire calls up the
animating remembrance of his early toils. The
young are told who were their benefadtors, re
ceive in full fydem, what then had caught as tra
ditionary fragments, and liden with an enthuli
afm to the dory that recounts the glory of their
idliici rt*
After a judicious introduiftion, prefenting un
der one view, the original fettlement and early
progrefs of the different colonies, Mr. Marfhall
has opened the firft chapter of his fecund vo
lume with an account of the birth of the illuftri
ous fubjeift of his work. In this chapter moft
readers arc prefented with an interefting fccnce.
They are introduced to Wafhington at a time
of life when character is unfolding. They fee
him a youthful foldier, conftant, intrepid and
afpiring anil aiming at diftimftion and thirfting
for glory. They fee him, in ports of inferior
military command, the faithful and zealous ex
ecutor of every truft, difplaying, in the onf;t of
his military career a flcill ai d valour that drew
'll?mJenf*Mti A«Mrn * *•
| -- ... «*»v vaj/LmutAU UIH ipidl
ed captains of a martial people. The narrative
of this chapter is fuccefsfuljy conduced, and
attains the hrft purpofe of every narrative, that
of leaving upon the mind a diftimft and lively
imprtfti-in of its fubjeft.
The fecund chapter gives a full account of the
caufes of the difference between the colonies
and the mother country. The great queftion
of the right of Britain to tax her remote fubjeifls
is here viewed in every light. To this chapter
the American reader, in a diftant generation, will
refort as the voucher of the reiftitude anil pa
triotifm of his anceftors. He will fee in it a
fenfe of juftice that perceived wrong, and a high
minded fpirit that flood forth to refirt it. In
fccnesof political collifion he will lie reminded
that the birth of his country was in virtuous
jealotify and honourable pride, and will helifate
bow he ever confcnts to a recall of thofe pledg
es of national fecurity and independence. The
remainder of the book comprifes a hiftory of
the military operations of the revolution, down
to the winter of’7fi and ’77. Of the expedition
into Canada, a vivid narrative is given. To
have been a fpetfator of the ronflitfl at Quelrcc
could alone have given a more diftinft idea of it
fhan Mr. Marfhall’s recital. The official letters
of Gen. Wafhington are copioufly fpvead
throughout the work, and taken in connection
with txifting events, (hew in imprefTive lights,
the quirk lighted and pervading appirhenfton
of an able chief. It will be the praife of Mr.
Marfhall’s work tha( it contains fo mbutte an ac
count of the war. It is properly obft rved, that
hiftory is biography. Rofcoe’slife of Lorenzo
of Mcdicis is a hiftory of the learning and arts of
a modern age of Italy.
The life of Alexander embraces a hiftor
the overthrow of the Grecian Rates, .and t
biographer of Caefn- muft (hew us the characte
of Brutus and of Anthony. Dr. Rjtnfav’s h
tory is faithful and interefting ; but Mr. Mar
Unn’s will, in all probihility, become the ft md
ard authority upon fubjclts connefted with the
American revolution. The laUer draws toll
pitftures of what the former gives general out
lines and only faint (ketches.
Of tiie ftyle of the book before us, it may be
confidently faid the general refult ir favourable.
Fts principal character'ftics arc pcrfpicuity and
cafe ; without high ornament or periods very
plowing. It is fo elevated that it will adorn the
library ofthetnanof letters, and vet, fo familiar,
that mod of its chapters may delight the even
j ing leifure of the mechanic or the hufbandman.
I I he writings of fome of the hiftorians of our lan
guage make thetafte far ftvle Ihmcwhat Inxuri
I ous. In the life of Waftiington there is now and
■ then an embarrailed fer.tcnce, and in a few in
' dances, diction fomewhat loofe. A nice tar is
• fometimes offended by the repetition of particu
lar mod s of expreflion, and does not alwavs
find the harmony it could wifh. Rut, whoever
is difpofed to exert verbal criticifm upon this
’ work, Oiould keep in mind the peculiar circuin
ftantes under which it has been written ; he
fhould recolleti! that the fecond volume has ex
tended to near fix hundred oiftavo pages, and
fiiould be told, that this volume is to Ik* follow
ed by three more of equal bulk.. Mr. Marfliall
has (liewn himiclf a fufficient rrafter of ftyle to
allure his readers, that when, unocrplexed by
“the preffing hour of publication” he (hall re
view his competition for another impreffion, a
tafk which at a future day muft he impo(ed on
him, its inaccuracies will difappear. His pages
form a body, flic folidity of which qualifies it to
take any polifh.
The author’s narrative has Fieen fofprndcd at
an interefting crifis of the revolution, and when
the fame of his hero was beaming with particu
lar luflre. The reader waits with anxiety for
the continuation. £Pbila. Re?.]
The Pr.-fident ofthe United States, arrived at
Wafliington, on the 30th ult.
We arc informed that three perfnns have
beta apprehended at Tioga, in confcquence of
the G- v roorV proclamation, among whom is
Oillet, l'uppof-d to he a principal. Apainft him
the grand jury have found a bill. The bills
again? the otfvr two have been returned igno
ramus.—l V. S. G.iz.
Extract of a letter fro u IFif/'anifborti Lycoming
county, fcunfv/vania, dated Sept. 18, 1804.
“ Airo ' Oillet ha been taken and brought to
this place, and two bills fouid apainft him by
the grand iurv—He has entered bail for his ap
pcaranre at our next court. Dorman Bloft and
his familv are come in, and I am informed by
him, thatOi’le* hat fold the trail in the name
of Mark Wfficox, to a certain Samuel Sattarbe
—The grand iurv found bills apainft a number
of the Yankees for a forcible entry on Willcox’s
tmft, but if government does not take fome de
cifive meafures, it will be ot no ufe to get pof
feirion of any lands by a courfe of law, as the per
f ms to whom you leafe, are drove off hv thofe
villains—There is one way they might be kept
in fubjedl'on, which is, for the governor to Aa
tion a parrifoh on the Tioga and one at the
mouth of Sugar creek, which would keep them
in fear, and the civil officers would he able to do
their duty—At prefent no pr icefa can be execu
ted of any kind.
The Yankees have cu* up Willcox’s trail and
one below, into fmali trails of so perches—on
the Tioga and extending one mile back they
give one hundred acres to each Conneiti
ent fcttler. If (bmething is not done by
government to put a flop to thefe intruders,
we may as well give them the country. I in
tend forwarding by next hod all the depofitions
I have.”—[Li.
Jeromf Rom ap arte.—A letter from Halifax
received ai Boflon fays, “ I believe there was a
miftake in printing here the account of the letters
refpeitinp M. Jerome Bonaparte; that nddref
fed to him was faid to be written by “ Deeres.”
but it appears to have been from “ Denes,” the
perfon who wrote the other letter which has
neen mentioned. It begins thus, “ I am juft;
come my dear Jerome, fr >m performing a very
diftrelfing f rvicc,” .and then goes on to inform
him, that he has written officially to M. Pichon
to flop his allowances, See.—Palladium.
The injury done by the 1 *tc ftorm in the Sou
thern ftates is eftimatcd at Savannah to amount
tc 350,000 dollars, and in South Carolina to ex
ceed a million.
Cipt. Sabin of the fch. Induftry, (arrived at
New-York) from Madeira informs, that a fleet of
Seven Britifti tranfports. under convoy of the
Culloden, Sir Ed want Pellew, Commander, and
two frigates, failed from Madeira the beginning
of laft month, for India. [Pha. Gaz.
A fever has, we underftand, lately made its
appearance at York Town, in the ftate of Penn
fylv mia, which has been alarmingly fatal. Four
teen deaths centred in that borough on Tuef
daythe llthinft. This isc irrparafively greater
than the mortality in the city of Philadelphia in
the fever of ’93 and *98.
f iV. T. Mer. Adv,
We underftand Walter Jones is appointed by
the prefident, attorney for this Dihrict, in the
room of John Thompfon Mafon, refigned.
L Aiexr. lixpojitor.
The Treaty lately held between the Creek
Nation and the United States Commiflioners,
has terminated inaufpicinufly foi Georgia, tin y
have not obtained one acre of land. A deputa
tion of Chiefs are to pafs through this place ear
ly in October next, oil their way to the City of
Walhington.— [Sparta Pap.
More rot es were given in France for Bonaparte
to be Emp< ror, than were given for him to be
conful for life.
The federal ticket for members of Congrefs,
confining of Samuel Tenney, Silas Betton,
Thomas W. Thompfon, Caleb Ellis and David
Hough, has fueceeded in New-Hamptliire, bv a
n^^rity of 5<)() votes. [Ulfler Gaz.J
TRAVELLING TO NEW-ORLEANS
BY WAY OF
PITTSBURGH.
Rxlrafl of a letter from a gentleman at Pittf
burgh, dated Sept, 7,1801.
“ 1 have the pleafure of announcing to you
my Oife arrival here, after a very pleafant jour
ney of lefs than 7 days from Philadelphia. La
dies perform this trip with much cafe and fafe
ty : there wt re two in theftagr with us.
“ The borfes in this line, I believe to be fu
periorto any other on the continent, arid the
drivers rety careful ami accommodating. The
Inns wh< re the flages put up are excellent, hav
ing good beds, and rcfrefhmmts of all kinds,
accompanied with much hofpitality. Their
charges are truly moderate ; my expences the