NATIONAL INTELLIGEN CER,
WASHINGTON ADVERTISER.
Vol. 111.
F/vs Dolls, per avn.
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCER.
Further evidence cf the federal Valua
tions of Louisiana, and of the unfavo
rable influence on the negociation ar.d
price* by the federal nasi papers.
No. VII.
Webave adduced pi oofs, in former num
bers, of valuations of tbe MrfiifTtppi coun
try, f.y gentlemen of high federal cha
racter in. tbe govern' - ent, far beyond the
tfricewe are to pay. The debate lea to the
vail importance of thatinterelling object.
The moft ferious" publication, made by an
unknown hand, foreign or federal, has
aiio been fhewn to place the vplue of
the acquired territory incalculably be
yond fifteen millions'. Not content by
fair means to fupport the value, it i 3
believed that they re'fbrted to a grofa
forgery, under the name of a French
ftate paper.
We might now proceed to attach the
fame very high ideas of value to the pro
vince of Louifiana-, upon molt of the fe
deral newi'papers, bu*. as the dctad would
be tedious, the positive andsttongproof,
».vill be confined to the Gazette of the
United States and the federal paper of
•rick town in Maryland.
It will be found that the impreiiion of
the Gazette of the United"States, which
■was publilhedon the 25th May, 1803,
filter the fubject was fully difcuited and
confidered, continue! to go every pofli
ble length upon the fubject of thi 111.
--roeul'e value of Louiliana. The Frede
rick town Federal Gazette, which is of 1
the molt decided party character, had
introduced the Act of Congrefs concern;. |
ing the appropriation cf the 2,000,000 I
by a long preface. That preiace and j
the act ittelf were repobl c Ga* !
zette of the United States. The idea I
of buying Louifiana *i>d New Orleans j
is particularly mentioned as being in con- !
tetuplation. The Gazette of the United 1
States and the Frederick town Herald, j
however affirm, that '* the democrats I
cannot think the first Consul Bonaparte, ,
such a simpleton, cvi to part with that j
country (L utiiaai aid New 0 . aris) '
for any compensation we can make him." ;
1 Into 11 is represented th t no.bing in '
oar command is enough for thofe cb- •
jctts.
We here are irrffntibly led from the ,
point of the intrinsic value of 'Louifiana ,
and New Orleans to the unfortunate 1
conduct of the writers and pnblilheri of j
fuch fuggedions as thefe. The two Ga- '
zcttes promulgated the law of their 1
comuiy, which allowed two millions of j
calh to be applied to thia lnterelttng pb- !
j et, tncrely as a firft payment, to put a j
leal upon the bargain ; and they add to |
it a moll impolitic iuggellion, under the I
eyes of the agents pf.a foreign govern
ment (which they are incelfantly fepie- |
i'er.tir-.g as avancit us) that the govern- j
mtnt of France may venture to hold up 1
Louifiana and New Oilcaiiii to. '.he very 1
h'ghest price, which we may be 1!,.
utile to pay I Did they willi the
of America to be fubject to an. extrava.
gant price, they could net have nled
means or language better adapted to
produce an extravagant valuation ot the
object by ;he French fellers. The pa
ragraph would have been wife and faith
ful iv the Moniteur of Paris ; but not
in gazettes of Marykuiders and Con
necticut men. Hiid they wifhed tojsrfc
vent the fale by France and the purchafe
by US, in order to bad to a tpianel, anil
ft w.tr between us and France. They
took the lure way : for they proclaimed
before Bonaparte that the sine quc.mn
of cordial good humor between our go
vernment and his was (beyond any thing
we could pay) precious to him. Had
they wifhed the French government to
afk fo high a price for Louiliana and
New Orleans as to procrallinate the
Conclufion of a treaty of fale of ti'<ae
invaluable objects, till a Bruilh expedi
tion could be fent thither to take them,
they could not have adopted a finer
mean, than to perGuade the Frrnch
-s here, that we ought to give an
iinracnfe price, the afking of which would
have- obliged Meffrs- LivingHon aaa
Monroe to write for the further fe-nti
t.-> of our government. If the Ga
zette of the United Slates, and the bre
c.eriek Federal Gazette had produced
inch a delay, the very worft conic quencet
muft have followed. We may oblrrvt
further, that, if tbe ed tors of thofe two
federal papers wilhed extravagant ideas
»>f the value, on the part of France, to
delay the negociation, that our weftern
cit.zens might be forced by diflrel's and
.1 by feelings to i'eize New v Orleans,
a i.d bring on a war, which would have
WASHINGTON CITY, PRINTED BY SAMUEL HARRISON SMITH, PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE.
caft us into the ferious condition of allies
with a power, which admits that Ihe can
obtain no allies in Europe;, the method
thofe editors purfued, was well calcu
lt'.ted for that pernicious„end. This tru
ly painful view of what has occurred on
the fubject will he here drcpt with a
lingle reflection, that nothing can raise
' th: price for New Orleans and Lvuisia
na upon us, as ths full and even extrava
gant value openly and constantly put up
on them by many of the federal editors
of our American newspapers. There h
n,.t a conliderable maritime power on the
Atlantic coaft ol Europe* which is hurt j
regularly Supplied with our principal j
newi'papers and political publications, i
The Frederick "Gazette, though very j
decided in its politics, may have efcap.d j
notice- in Europe? but it cannot be 4
doubted that tfee Ga&ette of the United j
States muU have reached the bureaus of j
the French department of state.
There is a llrong clillinction to be ta- 1
ken between the early arguments of the [
federal members of our governinewt, and j
thofe continued and latter arguments of |
cur niwfpaper printers. r l he former j
were Ipeaking on the policy of an im- j
mediate i'ciznte of the country, the im- j
portance of which they therefore natit- |
rally placed in the ftrongeft light beioie j
the Senate. But after the leisure was i
decidedly difcountenanced by a great j
majority of both houlcs of Congrefs, and j
hy the Prefidcnt and all the executive, j
when an act leading to a ptirchafe was ■
formally puffed, and when a minifler
appointed to neguciate with France and 1
Spain, it wai an ii! conduft in perfons, j
of ihe American family, to labor inccf- j
iaiitly to raife the ideas ot the French, j
las to the value of the object, to tlie ut- \
most possible point. If the full conlul's \
uiinilters were aifurtd by the printers of
Maryland and Connecticut ((hies not !
having a primary intercll in the pur
| chafe) ih at they confidered Louifiana lb
J immensely valuable, as to exceed the
1 fum total of all our means, (all our calls
; and all our credit) what mult they lup
; poi'e would be voted for Louifiana i>y
i New-Conneclicu'., by Weft New-York,
j Weft-Pcnniylvaiiu, Ohio, Weil-Yiigi
r.ii, TcmiciTie, the Weft
j Carolina*, Weil-Georgia and our orga-
J nited territories en the Msilillippi. No
i thiilgcan have, been more per} L-xing and
injunous than Inch publications, after
\ the open rejection, of forcible meafures,
{ and the appointment ef a mtnifter to ac-
I quire Louifiana excluliv/ly by negocia.
I uon. This unfortunate conduct of too
! many of the federal newfpaper* will put
I viitti.ius, prudent and economical
1 ralids on their guard againft tl
v effects of fuch conduct
\on future ptCahous. It will not be
' thought extreme ar hi&fd to make thefe
i oblervatious for it ia reduced to an ab
j lblute ceittinty that the minister 0/the
!' United Sta'-es, in Paris, stnd the Gazettt
ot tbe United >it tvs, iv America, were
in direct collifion. Mr. Livingfton'i me
morial evidences theutfuoft zeal and ex
| ertion 10 convince the tirlt ia.idol's mi
! mfter in Paris, that it was not the inte
relt til bianc.e ta hold New-Oilcaiis and
Louifiana, while the ('•./. ..U: al the U
nited States, and too many Qttiers, were
knbcruribg to majtc the li. it coiilui's mi- j
ftiifter at Wall .'"•'/.,' a ia. ii-ye, that it)
w.uihl be the niolt cxtnuie impolicy, iv j
the French government) to accept any j
American °d tr l° r tbein. There is 1
fcarcely an argument 01 fact, which will
tend to 1.-.lTc-n the fence of the rcafonipgs |
and truths in Mr, Li¥ing.fton/s memorial
but what ir&y be t, urn: in the columns [
of tome of the American federal ga- )
zettes, between the autu.nni uf 1802, and j
the prefent time. It behoves govern- j
merit and the.citizens of the United 1
States ofallparties y \et\o\sily to confider j
this undeniable and evil coutl'e ol tilings,
and unitedly to fearch for the cl- 1 < luc
and foreign caui'e- at an unfortunate spi- I
rit, which promotes the operations or
views of rival, or conflicting govern- j
meats, at tiie expence iif Vaft faring*
and Which, but for Pufch pub- 1
fictitious, might be acquired by our own.
—Oofervaiioas of tins nature are made
with the utmost pain, but they are dic
tated by haperiou.s neceflity,
COLUMBUS.
for The national intelligence}:.
Mn. Smith,
I hoped fame of your readers w'ouU
have aid wired, ere this, the enquiries in
ferted in yur pap f, r relative to the City
of Wafhingtort. But being difappditit
ed in this hope, I venture on the talk,
inadequate as my powers are, to do the
fubjeft jullice.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER, 2d, 1303.
Tbe firft qutry—." What is the fecu
rity that Walhington wili remain the
leat of government?" betrays an igno
rance ot our-pu'.ilic traii'l'actiong, pardon
able only in a foreigner. Jt will befeen
by reference to our national compact, j
and in the words of that instrument, that ■
power is given to Congrefs, " to exer
cif'e ej;.clufive legiflation in all cafes
whatsoever, over Inch diflrict of country,
not exceeding ten jnilea fqxi'are, as by ( ef-
Son of particular flates, ar.d the accep
tance of Congrefs, tliajl become the feat.
of the irovernmentOl the United S:atis."
It is not my purpofe to difcant on the ;
J wit'dom of a provi-fion which has been >
j acknowledged by all able flatefinen.—ltj
Jis enough, that rt is a conftitutiorial pro-!
j v'lfijn —that it has already been carried '
Cofnplete execution—that tlie power I
i cannot be sgain exercifed; and that in]
j puifuance ot this provifion, and under lo- i
I lemii acts of government, growing out of
j it, the City of W a tiling ton has been fix- ;
jed upon, as tiie permanent feat of the go- !
: veniment of-the United States. The!
peop|e »f the United States, like the
j people of all other countries, the/ with !
lefs to gain, and more to loi'e by revo- ]
I lution, nmj' drffroy their government; '
: —but while they are held together by]
.the exifting ccrapact, Congrefs have no]
i more power to change their permanent ]
j feat of government, than to abolilh the
ot prtfident. This doctrine was
iat an early period, advanced on the fluor
!of Congrefs by a dillinguiffefid member ;
J ——If vhs not then combated, nor has a
\ refutation ol it been lince attempted. To
\hy that Wafliington might be fe'nsed by
ah enemy, and the government driven
j from it; or that a reiielence in it might
tbe rendered highly dangerous by pefli
-1 leiitial (lil'eai't, would be but to cavil,
not to reafon. Ntceiuty muft forever
J create its own laws, ia fuch calamity
no doubt the powers cf government
might be lawfully exercifed el ft where ;
but fo foon a*.the calamity ceafed, the
government would be bound by the Cop>
Ititutional provifion, to return to itscon
ftitutiunal rcfidti <c.
Secured however, as Wafliington is hy
the tonftitution, there' h ecpial fecuiity
far its remaining the feat of government,
in its local poiition. No man better
knew, than its fage and virtuotis foun
der, tl at found policy, no lefs .ban tub
ftantial jutiicc to all the members of the
Union, liijperiouifly dictated, that th
neral convenience and general iuterell
lhould be primary confidi rations in the
location o( acitydeftined to b. the fea;
of.emplre. Hence we find, the City of
W;.fbi,gtou, UIC feai of government,
very t/nrt of tbe
Lation and ttrnnn) ( f the whole
United States, as near to the centre as
it war poflible it couki I- placed) with
out making it inaccelfable by water, to
the Atlanticllatea. Altbuugbit blitu
tvitlun the antient limits of Mary
land, it i.; as neat ur.,: fid rablepqrtioi s
pf-tlie great ftate_ oi New-York,Penn
f/lvanta and Vii/uaa, as tne feats of
tlieir refpeotrve Hate g iverniucnts are;
a ■' \c is beyond all qu ftion, the neareft
feaport to a great rrisjority of the people
and 1 the Union. The
.. a publication fome
years r.go, by a gentleman at that time
relident m the family of General Waih
; ths) beft means of
infora>a'icn, Vitt one-eighth part pf the
whole population of the United Statt s
was to be found on the river Potor>;>4, c k
audits waters-—the proportion ma.'ft now
be greater. Were it poflible 5 tor a ma
jority of the geopte of or
C.iine.iicut, to difregavd jullice and the
general welfare, and to be governed only
by nairay/and i.Vlfiih viewi., they might!
prefer Doftyn., ar rPuford, for the feat of j
- eminent; and influenced j
by like confideration*, Philadelphia
might'be preferred, by the Pennlylvatu
j an.i, or Augulla, by the people of Geor- j
. gi.i—but if thfflaal of government were
j now to be eltatiiilhed, comnii-n interefl, j
I common juftice,and common llnfe would ;
11 unite in fixing it, where we already
find it.
i'here ar-* other and weighty meafures
L th- poftib.lity of a voluntary
change of the feat oi gevernment, arillng
out nf tlie coinp .els made with theftatts 1
of Virginia taut Maryland, in regard to ,
tke < cllian of the tercitery ; and the con
tracts macK- v»itli individuals.by tbe au
thenty and under the faith of govern- ,
meat; but enough, 1 trull, has been faid, j
to convince any rational mind, feeking ;
f,r information, that no eibiohllimeut in |
the United States, can be more fecure j
than that of VVtrlbitigcon, as the feat pf j
ti-K if go'vernvuent. j
Hiving dwelt fo long on the fiift.
query, 1 IliaU ;l ter until another opp-»r
tunity, any bbfervatlons on the re 11.
A CITIZEN OF COLUMBIA.
From the Bo r Ton Crronicle*
thk EXAMINER—No. X.
" And so they wrapt it up."
In ray laft I obferved, the republicans
were obliged to contend againft the fc-
Mer'alifis in a fpecies of skirmishing aaa- ':
logouj to an Indian warfare. When :
t yen rally one party, another appears ju
I a different quarter j they place them- 1
lelvcs in various a- Gtijjaa, a d as one j
1 wigwam is touted, thry, repair to another. |
i Ihey have drfferen. . and ea. b
j take fuch ground as hiH 1 genuity da
j tate*. At a certain period on
Harper Was the champion ol the ctt.y ; i
Ihe had a vaft bundli
I what fimilar to a bun lie isi Inoiah ar- |
: iov.t) which ledtojmmeri
' During the admitiifir.ition of Goodloe, j
j the t;;deralifts " wrapt tiievnlclves up," j
:as fnug as a iv a blaolcet. While J
j Goodloe was thus --a., they '
io -kt ci wondrous wife. A liirag of the j
1 fhoulder—n nnd of the he*d—ar, a 1
! i'quint of the eye—werefignala portend
! ing the fate of the I'
' taih men in State-ftreet appeared prodi-
I giaufly knowing—tiay were buried in
j contemplation andoogitatlonj each bye*
j ftander watched the languor, or ir
of their countenance ; if their bands
moved upwards, it was the figoal of
war; if they hung in a perpendicular j
poiition, the chance Was doubtfulj but j
if they placed th»ir anas a-kimbb in a j
hoftile attitude, then "he Clarionofd
and defohtion founded veiyj
avenue of the metropolis—flocks roi'e or i
fell by this thermonietei—mfarantcwas j
fufpeuded on their frown* or I'taiies, -.aid ;
every nrt'n ta-j.-.e r'flnl on the j
harlequin fiat 1 profound politi- j
ciatrs-
After Goodloe bad rpun rut til j
clues, the federalifb " wrapt thera
up," within tbe mantle of tbe illuminati, \
adorned with a crimson border dyed in '
the blood of the ship Ocean. 'This co
vering fpread cma sir extenhve furface.
It was a favorite afylum, and tlie federa
lills run Rnder it li Ice* young pigs feeking
fhelter in a gale of wind. They found
however they expafed tbemfelves to ri- 1
ciicule by taking fanctuary under Io !
ilattty a covering, nr.el they foon left j
their f'age doctor to feel the mortification j
tailing from his credulity and folly.— j
They did not wrap tbemfelves up long
within this pig leaf.
Tub-plats, taylor-plots, lady-plots, £c j
other furprizing phenomena followed in j
quick fucceflion. They fVrvcd as cuca- i
fiohal wrappers, :.nd under thefe fable *
habiliments the EfleX Junta ma , >irt , 'i J
their pri>jec.\s with as much fecurity as
Guy Faux with bis dark lantern*
The feder»Uftsgenerally have
who fcents for tlie whole pack.. They
truft to his fag icity in all thf'.r put fuits,
and v. hen be Harts the g? me they all
commence the chafe, till the old hound
gives the fignal to retreat, and then with
all the obl'eqiiioufnef', 0 f puppiea " wrap
themfdves up," vatbin their refpeaive
kennels. Durkg this pause, not one of
them dare wag his tail.
On the lubjetf of New-O.leans this
plan has been atiroitly profecuted. Rofs
blew Cue. born—Morrh, Malbn and 0-
reverberated the echo. Fabricius
aud his alfociates fwellcd the note of
"Hark .' hark ! don't you hear
'Ihe sound in the dale,"
upon the found Of which the whole body
of f'porthntn refponfed the joyful accla
i mation,
" 7Vie chase is begun we declare ;"
1 while, tiie Spaniards at New-Orleans
j were defcribed as
" Poor puss in a fright,"
j with fifteen thousand Kentuckians pur
fuing them, till the
ii Poor rouges sink, struggle, and die."
Fabricius, it feems, was to come in at
the death ; but alas, the hounds are all
in fault. His late lucubrations are a fe
;\e% of lamentations, becaufe be had not
the fati-jfatilon of feeing garments rolled
in blood, and the plealure of traverfing
; a territory wet with human gore. He
appears angry at his liifippointment.—
\ Like a true fportfman be bad rather ob
i tain by a chafe, a lean hare not worth
\ a flailing, with all its i'anguinary and
expenfive prog re Is, than it fatted calf by
j a peaceable negociation. He had ra
j ther venture his nrck «\cra five barred
j gate in purf'uit of his game, than acquire
j four times its value by an amicable ar
! commodation. He is a buck of tiie tirb
j water, that is a noify braggatocia, bu
the lail man who would hazard himfelj
in the field of danger. It is ttue Ik
Ne.CCCCXLVII.
Paid in Advance.
would leap over a fire rail g-it<* in pur
fuit of a timid hare, but Would ikulit
bnderahay.moiird if Ihe Ihonid halt to
attack iiiui. Fabricius has medicated
hts whole fyftem of warfareagnuftFi
on the bafa ground of tVtkihity ; he
vauntingly grapples to take New-Or
leans, »» bee ai(V, (fays he) th
; cannot oppofe ut." Like his bro
I Jonathan he looks to tire Brit ill
! for help; iike a coward lie pUte.
jdepender.ee on the inability o> h
d res not cant- forw .■
' ! "C nrilA;
pi owe Is. but fud I ill qj s ncr ,
' is valiant, net lik< .'Don Cv^ix
bt bimfeif omnipotent, but
Sancho Pancha, wha truftcd wholly
jto the bit.very pf la , t-; c de \
- " i!, - ,: I -.' a
:r t:-. occupy the co-j
tinu&d, •■;,
j all means of eftabliiVi
j a colony." if ti |..;s
j the federal party beei
j the inroadi of Ftw «■
! a '" l ii
have they ffiggefted the fall' idea, tl i '
tlie- wvfterr
their hano's ?
place, "U'the Frenci
and provide a colony i . i ■-_
Mr. Hd&,'Morri s , ~„:;
declare ths revf.rfe, they fry, tf ;vc did
not i-. fir, , t> t ,, v
napartc ii<ou!d es-allish a i/Aany t* the
utter ruin of the United . H ow
abi'urd then is t
if las iaot!.. r war-1
their predicti ri I :.:,, ,
• yn:{ another lays I Fabricius'
I apd '•'? cp-adjators re, at rariance
j " P-tufe, paul'e," y : ,, %v v| 0?
f Heaven's f.\ke paule," ipr your mighty
men are not agreed in their firft preli
minary. Fnbricius, and Morris, are as
much in .-ppcfKion, as the. republicans
and fedei alifts. \\ hen fu<? h great chaiv
afters difagre? who tan become tin- um
pire ? How can the EflV* j u ,, to ». Wiap
tliemfelves up," in a corverfid fo torn
j and tattered I Fabrtclu* f)U i: s oue way,
j while Monis, Koft a.nd Jonathan pull
I another. AU** t'.ie party is in a terrible
; plight, they leeti, üburning to the ws-
i 3 e--~.<ip, u re, paufe, for heaven's
j fake puife-\__,a t ], e r4in bow will h»('e its
radiancy*—u t he fcalpitig knife" will
:be crtn/.oiuid with blaod, if the federal
j party cannot make fome Coinpromifa
i up'* 7 l fodilaftrous a difiigrceinent. " For
i bv'aven's fiike" afTemhle your phalanx,
• >and call upon the Canada itinerants to
, meet in conclave to adjaft your ciffer
} ences—Ciyalotod; fpare not—.for your
j defliudliondrawetn nigh.
j During this d'.ffentijn among the par
ty, the republicans aretoftand ftill, and
wait the iffue. I flvdl wr.it patiently a
few days to hear bow they fettle their
difpute, far it is fome what curious, that
Fabriciu*, (the champion of the federa
) (boulel become tbe moft conckil'.ve
evidence to prove the folly ot our going
to war, to prevent the French from co
lonizing a country, which he declares,
" it is cut of their power to do, even if
peace had continued." We thank you
Fabricius for thi* acknowledgment, and
recommend you to the patronage of your
brother war-hawk?, and fhall be happy
to hear how yon " wrap it up." I will
juft remind you Fabricius, that however
your differences may be fettled among
yoUrlelves, yet •♦ by eager purfnipg We
lhall have you at laft," lor your pop-gun
war, and sophamore publications fcrve to
exam's you to the ridicule of your own
party, and the contempt of the repub i«
cans. More of this at leisure*
Patent Horizontal Wind ■Mill.
HP he fuhferiber offer* to the gantlemca
J- farmers and others of Mary land, and the
other ftates, an invention, which ter utility
has not been exceeded by any piece of me
ehanifm which th ; t> or perhaps the hft centu
ry can boaft of. it is a peculiarly, though
fnat'ly, coulhinftetl horizontal Winei-Mill, a
dapted torn grinding oi all torts«f grain, and
at the fame time threftihig out* wheat and rice,
fanning them and pounding the latter, pow
dering plaifler of Palis,cutting tobacco, &c.
&c. Its aptitude to all thofe various and rue
ful purpofes, will be more ealily and j altly
eftiniartd by a view of the machine itfelf,
than from any difcription that caa be given
here.
A tn<-del of this wind-mill can be viewed
on Federal Hill, were it is kept for the con
venicney oi flawing it in operation, by apply
ing to Mr. March, No. 4, fouth G-y-ltrect,
by whom alio the term? will be made known
or the model, only to erect a mill hy, or fw
he patetit rh/ht for a whole ftate ; or hy
JOHN BAPTISTS AVEJLHE,
The Inventor, Havre-de-Grace-