I
I THE MADlSON! AN
t it*.
!udw ii| mo II Mill, w? vessel actually Is what
m ||?r colon mnouncr." I am surprised the United
la tea thou Id con leal this, considering the many
mail itatra by which they are unrounded, and how
only their revenue might he injured if it could once
he eaiabliahrd aa a principle that a foreign vrsael .
might become eaempt Irom visitation by hoiating
any particular flag. (Hear.) With auch a principle
recogniaed, neither the revenue nor Ihe
commerce of the United Slates could be aafe
for an inalant. Hut I know that the United
Slates do liberally exercise thia right in the seas ad- 1
jacent to their own coast , I know hat if a Mexican |
vessel were to hast Ihe lirilish flag under auspicious
cireuraatancea, the United Mates would not hesitate
to exerciae Ihe right of ex|H??iiig the fraud . ami
kn 'wing thia.l am the more surprised at the claim tr<w
act up by the Preaident of the U Stalea. Therefore,
air, it will be my duty, In the fare of the public, expressing
drep regret lhat there shoubl appear to be
any difference of opinion on Ibis topic,explicitly toderlare
that we hare not waned one of the principles
contended for I y my noble friend (earl of Aberdeen) 1
in hit despatch . f December, 1841 ; uad it la further i
my duty to declare that that despatch has remained
I . the present hour unanswered by the Government j
of the United Mates. 1 know, I think too well what j
is the ability and what the keenness of a Secretary
of State in the United States, to belicrr that if doc- !
Urines so important as those advanced in the drspalrh
could he questioned, it would hare been permitted to
remain fourteen months unanswered and unacknowledged,
had it been 'thought wise to eonteat those !
principles (Hear, hear.) And, sir, w ith rrspept to
this right of search, that no belligerent hut corn en
lional right which is used hj one poser lor the pur- !
poses of humanity, to check Ihe tralhc in stares, I
aiu bound to say that, errn on that |m>iiiI, I am surprised
at the determination with which the United
Slatea refuse that mutual right (Hear, hoar.) I
am now speaking of lhat right of search which, by
the treaties with the greet powers of Kurupe, by trca- 1
ty with France and other States, is mutually conceded
by parties deauoua to present effectually the traffic
in tlave??ft nrlit tn nfun-h ??" ' ? * '
- ? ? ? uvionging to each
country which it a parly to the treaty, delected in
the act of carrying on tint trade For, in the year
1894, a contention was signed in tint country by Mr
Ruth, the inir.itler of the United Stales, almoat at the
instigation of America, which profi ted the
utroo?t deaire to put an end to the ?la?r trade ?
A convention, 1 ity, w at tinned by Mr.
Ruah, with Mr. Ilu-kiston, which did inutually
concede the right of tearch , that it to
say, which enabled >e?elt of war, of the I intcd
St ilea and (ireat Britain respectively, to eaereite,
under certain atipulationt, that very right of
aeareh againtt which such a clamor it now raited in a
neighboring country. ( Hear, hear, hear.) That treaty
wat reje :.ted by the Senate of the I idled Hl.itea, not {
o i the ground of an objection to the right of tearch,
l>ui becaute the right o( tearch eitended to the nu-l
of America, and the United Htatet objected to the
right of teirch being exercised in the immediate
neighborhood of the coast of America, alleging that
it wat not necessary for the tupprrtainn of the slave
trade. The Senate of the I nited Htatet omitted tin
coaat of America, and Mr. Canning refuted to ratift
the treaty in cimiequMN of that omitaion . hut if
Mr. Canning had allowed the roa-t of America to b?
omitted from the treaty, at tint moment a contention
authorizing the right of search would hare (wen in j
force with retpect to the I nited Htatet Sir I hope
that lliose who have contended w ith ?n much trie
mcnce in the, legislative Chamlier of France againtt
the maintenance of treatiet framed in the pure spirit
of humanity, ai d who quote the example of the i'nited
Slates, will refer to that contention, and w e that
the United Htatet themselves were among the tind to
permit that conventional right ol" tearch. i lx>iid
criet of "bear. ')
There inii"t be some great misunderstanding upon
tlie subject; hut contidering tlie importance ol maintaining
this right?a right not |>eriiliar to Faigland
contidering that we are contending for a right which
it the only security againtt fraud, ag iin-1 the gro-tc.t
ahtitet by partict interested in thin iniquitous trnfl'ie,
contidering that wc are now the adrocatctof a pr nnple
neretsary (nr the intrre-ts and ?ecurity of all
maritime nations -It is my duty to rtatc, in the face
of the llonse of Common", that the claim to tlie rijht
of riailalion contended lor in the despatch of l/>rd
Mierdeen hat not hren relinquished ; that en th ? tuhject
there was made no conces-don whatever, and
float In lb. r,ri.i?lnU. I?J -* ' ?
.... r.iiuud in ma despatch!
lx?nl Aberdeen wf ahhere at this moment. (Cheers
(r?>m V?otli sidra of tlic house
With reapect to the treaty which we hare, entered
into with the Inltcd States in signing that treaty we
eonsider that we have abanH ned no right of visits
lion We (jo not nudei-stand from the t'niled States
that they entered into that treaty with any engagement
from no to abandon the right of visitation,
which te not necessarily connected with the. question
of tha alive trade We thought that it was a atep in
advannc when the United Stales professed a rae.ii
nass to detach a ntvgj lore* to the cogst of Africa,
THURSDAY. FEBRUARY .'.1, lma.
1h rioit nUKIMKNIlU tUtNIUI. LSI IHIU
k. omit v in kun-kxemtiai.*, liver tv ; and in 41 i
1 TMIMbt CMAEITT.? Angiutill.
RIGHT OK ' VISITATION.""
The l**t arrival* from Kurope bring uilelli
geucr of an important ami cxciiing character
It appear* lio n Sir Robert 1'. el's speech, thai
(be Driiibh do not construe (lie provision ol
the treaty of Washington rtlaiiug to the adjustment
of the question of the "right of vtsilu.n
/ ..,i,1,.i, ii.^ijpni Tvler. in Ins annual
very properly de?ignlM ouly *nu'
v ther name lor the riijht ol search, a view ol
the subject which will be sustained by the
nation,) a* it ia understood and interpreted by
the whole American People. Indeed, Sir Robert
uiore than iniiuiatea that the President has
Misrepresented the purport of that portion ol
the Treaty which provide* for the suppression
of the slave trade?and that the Secretary ol
State was satisfied of the justice of the claim
act up by Great liritain to the ''right of visitation,"
inasmuch as a .despatch sent over by
the Earl ol Aberdeen iu 1811, asserting that
right, had neither been answered nor its reaeknowledno'l
But the speech itself will belter explain the
intentions of the British Government:
I rejoice that the honorable gentleman has given
me an opportunity of making some observations on
the late message of the President of the United
States. Hie sincere and earnest desire I have always
eatertsined for the maintenance of a good understanding
between this country and the United
Htates, and the spirit in which 1 have always spoken
of America, makes it a doubly painful duty to ine to
have to refer to that message, which 1 am sorry to
say does not give a correct account of the negotiations
relative to the right of visit. Perhaps 1 may
do light to confirm what the honorable gentleman
has said, that there is nothing more distinct than the
fight of _ visit is from the right of search. 11
Search is a belligerent right, and uot to be exer- '
eieed in time of peace, except when it has been con- 1
ceded by treety. The right of search extends not :
only to the vessel, but to the cargo also. The right '
of visit is quite distinct front this, though the two are
often confounded. The right of search, with re- I
spect to American vessels, we cutirely and utterly
disclaim; nay, more, if we knew that an American
vessel was furnished with all the materials requisite
for the slave trade, if we knew that the decks
were prepared to receive hundreds of human beings 1
within a space in which life is almost impossible,
still we should be bound to let that American vessel
past on. But the right we claim, is to know w hether
a veftsel prrteuding tube American, and hoisting the
American flag. be bona fide American. (Hear, hear.)
We claim the right to know whether a grievous
wrong has not been otTereil to the American flag ; to
know, for instance, whether a Portuguese or Braziltan
schooner, sailing under the American dng, be really
what she seems to be. In the admirable despatch
of my noble friend, dated the tfOth December,
1841, be wrote hut: "The undersigned apprehends,
however, that the right of search is not confined to 1
the verification of the nationality of the vessel, but
also eatends to the object of the voyage, arid the nature
of the cargo 1 he sole purpose of the British
cruisers is to ascertain whether the vessels they meet
with are really American or not. The right asserted
has, tn truth, no resemblance to the right of search,
either in principle or in practice It is simply a right
to satisfy the tarty, who has a legitimate interest in
I .1- .?.1- .!- ! ? ....
* * j 4 *
lor the pur[ oee of luppreMtit^ lh? tla?< tiade We
did not accept the detachment of ife#t n?*ti force
an equivalent for any right which ? claimed , jet
till we thought th?i for ? gr* ?l coontiy Uhc the I'm*
led SUtci to l4h? that ?tr|> w ith W* n the cou?t of
Africa, although the power of visitation mi limited on
dcr the treaty hi ?u< h i*m. JtK xigt' we clami im
right to viMt alter re, U>#va fVde American, ami the
! right is to Ik? exert i*ed hy vei*?els oi the I niled S at* ?
! ?we Ihougta it, I ?ay, a step 111 advance tow aids the
ultimate suppression of the slave trade to accede to
the proposition of the I mlrd Stales
But iii acceding to that we have not abandoned our
claims tn the slightest degree, nor did H * make
any part of our intention, during the controversy, to
abandon the right to which we lay claim in the dc?path
1 have iiieiitioned. ( Hear, hear, hear ) We
have not contented ourselves, sir, with leaving this
fuel to become known by a declaration hi Ibis bouse ,
but since the appearance of the President t Message,
wo have taken an opportunity ol intimating to the
United StaU stiie const ruction we place on the treaty.
(Cheer*.) 1 trust, sir, (hat 1 have said enough to satisfy
the house on this p iut; 1 trust, also, that although
compelled to avow a material difference of
opinion between the two government* upon this particular
question, 1 have stated this difference of opinion
with the resoect which 1 wish to maintain tow ards
liic high authorities of the l/iiiteil States. (Hear,
hear.)
The President of the Untied States, Prauce,
indeed all Europe, n-gardid the question as
settled, as far as Anterieau vessels were concerned.
If Lord Ashburtou thought dilTerently,
he would ceriaiuly have referred, in his correapondeuce,
to the despatch of the Earl of Aberdeen.
That France regarded the Treaty of Wash
iugton as a settlement of this question, advantageous
to America, is clearly demonstrated by
the following proceedings in the Chumber of
Deputies, on the 12th ult.:
On the 12th some discussion took place on the
right of search.
M. de Monthierry desired that some inquiry should
be made to the Cabiuet in regard to the right of
search.
M. deKocnueville thought that it was necessary to
express in trie address, (in answer to the King's
speech) the desire that negotiations should lie opened
with England, for the purpose of abolishing the
slave trade by other means than the right of search.
In the present state of public opinion, a modification
ui ine ircaiics 01 iooi uuu icjjj
M. Lalunde declared that the treaty of 1831 wit a
serious insult to the dignity of the navy, and the treaty
of 1833 a no less serious assault on the safety of
our commerce, lie teas desirous thai while proceeding
with extreme caution, their entire repeal should
he brought about. The treaties on the riglit of search
appeared to him so dangerous that he was less astonished
at the abuses that had taken place under them,
than that (hey were not more frequent.
M. Monier de la Sizeranne desired the complete
abrogation of the right of search.
M. Cunin Gridaine replied that the Ministers considered
themselves bound to the treaties of 1831 and
1833. That circumstances did not justify their violation,
that France having strictly executed them,
would demand their equally strict execution by the
powers allied with her in those treaties.
M Odillon Harrot. It is not the extension given
to the limits of the treaty of 1841, which caused the
amendment unanimously adopted by the Chamber;
it was the assault on the independence of the Hag, the
abuse which had taken place of a right, exorbitant in
itself, and a consideration of what was due to the
preservation of peace between the two countries,
which w as threatened hy a continuance of the reciprocal
right of search. The Chamber must express
itself decidedly on the principle of this right, on the necessarily
temporary and revocable character of treaties,
and on the determination of France to place herself
in t e same position as England and the United States
had done hy their late treatyMany
other members expressed themselves also in
favor of a treaty on the subject of the slave trade,
similar to that la/cty entered into between the U. States
and England.
Such expressions prove that France regards
the late Treaty as exempting America from the
arbitrary claim set up by England to subject the
power* of the earth to her "rule" on the seas.?
If America had not successfully asserted its
riglit to the free nnd unmolested navigatiou u'
the high seas?if it had not obtained an exemption
Irom the humi iat ing process imposed by
the " Mi tress of the Seas," on all other maritime
powers?in short, if there were no privileges
in this respect achieved hy the late treaty ?
then why should France and other nations demand
to he placed upon the same grounds which
t
And yet .Sir Robert Peel, who is viriuaiky at
llic head of the British Government, declares
explicitly that "we have not waived one of
the principles conti tided for" in the "right of
ti-itation," and intimates to France that America
does not enjoy a single privilege on ,the
high seas, not granted by the "ini-tresi of the
seas" to other powers.
But the uio.-t smu-ing part of Sir Robert's
speech, is the coniiderate and patronizing declaration,
th it "We claim the right to know
whether a grievout wrong lias not been offered
to the American flag !" And hence they
would board our vessels snd make tearch to
ascertain the fiict ! What control has England
over our flao I Ota flau protected itself
ih'ring the laht war. We had supposed we
were an independent nation, and no longer
tributary to, or under the parental protection
of, our cruel old mother. We had thought we
could resent and redrrtt any "grievous wrong"
offered us by any naiion. ourselves.
Boch was the parental solicitude of Nap<le,.n
for Venice, when be placed an rirrned force in
that < ity, a lew months previous to telling n to
Austria.
But what right has England to set up this
preposterous claim 7 Doe* any other Power in
the universe set up such a claim 7 Why should
Great Britain claim it as a right? Is it because-he
possesses the might? It is true a
powerful nation may appropriate to itself a territory
by the right of conquest?-or dictate laws
on the high *eas if it has the means to enforce
them?hut hi either case 11 is a belligerent right.
Amehk a is not a conquered nation either on land
or -ea.
Sir Robert Peel admit* that "?earch is a belligerent
right." The Presi lent in his last annual
Message to Congrea*, explicitly declare*,
that the right of visitation i* but another name
lor the right of search. Here the issue is complete
Willi hi* Sir Robert Peel?and irrevocable
on our part. If our (iuvernment is sustained
by the People, then this claun set up by Kng
land must be abandoned, or else it would seem
a third struggle lor independence awaits us.
W e conclude by quoting an item of Irish
news :
IRKLAM).
Mr. O'C'onnell has published * letter to the people
of Ireland, ill which he say? :?"1 am able at present
without iloiibt or difficult;, to nnotmce that the cri
14 h?4 come upon lit w hen, if the people of Ireland,
the clergy and laity, will but isimtnne m their overwhelming
majority, th Ktg>enl of the Union i* all
hut immediate, and the commencement of a new era
of lri?h prosperity i? at hand." He eniiinerat> "five
great mi asures as the basis upon which tie seeks "to
combine nil Irishmen in the struggle for the Repeal
of the Union " "Firstly, the total abolition of the
lithe rent charge. Secondly, tiaitr of tenure for the
occupying tenants Thirdly, the . neouragement and
perfecting of Irish manufacture*. Fourthly, com
plete suffrage and Tote by ballot. Fifthly, Atiolition
of the present poor law?, and augmentation of wellregulated
charitable institutions " The present year
?"l-*3? is and atiali be, Ut? greet Repeal year "
THE LIGHT OF CHKNANGO.
Mi John ( CUrk took occasion on Tuesday
to "Irrt and iUui bis li'lle lioui upon llic itlagf,'
in a -|Mri.li, wbieh, having been duly conned
u\ -t ind fuiumilCed lo memory, i lie iionorulil'
in. uibrr J.-li*? red *'?ri|?|?mi; 1 y u tin- ion.'or
I'lie oraior appeared lo propose lo himself, at
III- ins I n olijrel, I lie dlseUa-lon ol Iwo veiy till
..iiii^ ?r ik?
(OpiCf *'I?c IUT |/v.iuvo ??
KMIIl o( ChtBMgO} tk( Stale ot Nl>
York, both ill their present ?I;ilc and past rela
lions. The view he |ire?enied on this important
branch of national affair-, will, we doubt
not, be quite salislactory to (lie whole country :
the subject may now be cunsidercd as put at
real.
The orator'a other topic was thv treason ol
Mr. Webster in remaining in the Administration,
\vh u Messrs. Kwiiij! & Co. aaw lit to
quit it. His harangue on this part of the case
was little more than a free use of the vocabulary
of Mesara. Holts, Arnold and Kayuer, revised
and enlarged. These gentlemen were observed
to he particularly attentive to the brilliant effutions
of the Chenango Cicero, and frequently
to manifest a sort of impatience, or uneasiness
as if they wishedjocry out, "that's my thunder
I"
This sort of plagiarism, we think, is inexcusable.
To rob the rich has sometimes, in cast*
of great"extremity, been considered a parjonaote
ouetice. iiut to eniicutu. diminish bv
division, the stock of glory which the trio in
question have earned during (his ever-lobe reI
downed Contrreat. is a heartless attempt to
plunder ilie poor, which calls for lite most serious
animadversion. We protest against it.
And it is the less excusable in Mr. Clark, because
there is another subject?quite as germaiu
to the matter in debute as any that he introduced?upon
which he might have been both
eloquent and original. On his way from Chenango
to China, why did be not stop awhile at
Liverpool, and tell us all about the Consulate
there ? Tristram Shandy shows as bow a man
of genius might talk for an hour about a beuf,
without ever having seen a bear. And so a
gentleman of Mr. Clark's fluency and fertility
of imagination, might say a great deal about a
Consulate, without having seen one. He might
tell us who is, who has been, and who, in his
opiuioD, ought to he the incumbent. What is
the annual amount of lees? Is it a pleasant
place of residence, Liverpool ? Is the Consul
allowed any peiquisiles in addition to fees? dec.
ifcc.
A GLANCE AT THE PAST.
A few days only of the 27ih Congreas now
remain. ''For better for worse," it lias been
of longer duration, i. e. has been it session a
larger number ol days ihan any, per.iaps, on record.
The extra stssion was urged upon a
seemingly coniiolling necessity, and though we
cannot think the emergency was so pressing as
represented, still the motives that induced its
summons with inauy may have been pure. We
like not to recal many ol its acts?for good or
for evil, they have become fixed in the mind-, of
men?and foolish and inconsiderate, as we can not
hut hold the conduct of many of the leaders
of the dominant party, we are charitable
enough, calling to mind the inliriuily of our
?nainro iav./?rihn r'.-rfaift nnH%t?eilin<JS
beyond the pale of decorum and sound judgment,
rather to the turbulent, unrestrained feeling*
incident upon the flush of victory, than to
dishonest intention.
Hasty legislation ever induces a fatal series
of enduring cjuseque nces,and ofientiines the evil
thought to lie remedied,b -comes more disastrously
confirmed through immaturity ot the purposed
mode of reform. Particularly with financial
is it, as with the disorders of the body. The
diseases induced from had diet, from stimulants
of excessive strength, from neglect, or other
equally potent causes, require .nuch medicinal
attention and no little time fur cure. And a
currency, unhealthily stimulated at one time,
sported with at another, ra-hly tampered wiik
at all times, can alone be restored by a return to
regular treatment, and, particularly, absUmious
habits.
Tlic jocose propositions for a regulating institution,
denominated Fiscal, for the purpose of
conveying some tangible idea, which were
hurried through the two Houses at the extra
session, never even with the assent of the constitutional
Kexecutive, could have been malured
into vitality. They were too lugubrious
for ridicule perhaps, and decidedly
loo jejune for serious argument. As
jeux d'esprits of legislation, they may
be commended; hut we would respectfully
suggest to the distinguished economist who prepared
them, the consideration that fibril at legislation,
innocent of designed accomplishment,
had as well peihaps be confined to |be closet, j
for which they were intended, as suf jects for
trifling argument?not proposed to grave legis- j
lative assemblies to occupy time belter devoted
to objects of practical results.
If the Democrat* be gratefully indebted to the
President fir his vetoes of two bills, in winch 1
they discovered latent powers of mischief, the |
Whigs should be no less to the -.ame individual,
foi Ins saving their party from the fatal ridicule
and contempt to which the consummation of
their purposed plans would have consigned them.
BENTON REPUDIATED IN MISSOI R|
From the following paragraph, which we find
in the Keninrkian, a thorough going Drmoera- !
tic journal, we are left to infer thai Mr. Hen
ton's credential*, as a Delegate to the National
Convention, are not grnmnr. Hence, in a I
prol ability, he will not take his sea' in that
body.
MISSOURI?PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION
We rejoice to see that the democracy of Missouri I
arc manifesting a just an I important spirit in relation
to trio nomination 01 a ranumaie lor Ui? rresHlrncj. ?
We have seen several (ifmocntic piprri n that
State, at Roonville, Boons I irk, &c.f disapproving of I
the Legislativo caucus ol a portion of tbr members f
who undertook to nominate delegates for the whole
State of Missouri, without first consulting the j?eople.
"The Boonville Register" haw recommended a
"State Convention," to l>e composed of delegates
from each county, on the 16th and 17th of June, to
assemble at Jeftcraon city or Boonville. This looks
like the people were determined to take this important
matter in their own hands, and preserve the unity
of the party, when the people, the friends of Col.
Johnson or any other candidate, will be satisfied, and
we know that the friends of Colonel Johnson will
have nothing to fear l^et the whole democracy act
for themselves, uninfluenced by the leaders, and then
let all say amen '
K?*tT M In the Supreme Court proceeding of
Tiii-mIit the name of Job R Tyaon, f Philadelphia,
w#t erroneoualy printed Job T Tyeon, of N. ^ork
[ < OMMl'NICATKD
MORK LU2HT.
A few days since I Uoticed iu your paper
cuintnuuicaiion describing an eshibilioB of liglil.
I tig apparatus at ihe President's House 1 de
| sire, through the same medium, to wake huowu
.1 few facts relative to the various modes of lightnig
light-houses there how i. Oue of the ap
paratus exhibited was the French sideral lights ;
(Ins ih produced by placing it ?mat:i t ian
iu (tic common locus ol (wo reflectors, gcuera
led by (he revolution ol' a curve possessing the
property of projecting in hoti/ouial lines all rays
of light incident upon it. Under lavorable circumstances,
this light may be seen at a distance
ol six miles, it is used by the French us
a guiding light at the extremities of piers and
other important places?hut is never adopted lor
any important localities. 1 believe its use is
chit fly confined to the French harbors?the only
one in the Untied Stale* is that at the <|ua
ranline ground 011 Staten Island, New York.
Auothei apparatus shown, was a simple jet of
gas lighted in the focus of a parabolic reflector.
This is only the substitute of gas for the spermaceti
oil, now in general use over the world.
The Jillicultit s of managing gas are so great
that it can never he employed for the illumination
ol light-houses. In-England, about the
year 1832, the Holyhead and Swansea lighthouses
were lit by gas ; but, since that lime, the
gas-light at Huly head was the scene of constant
accidents; at one time the building was hlown
up by an explosion of ? >:>. At Holyhead there
was every facility for the use of gas?the lighthouse
was supplied from the same gasometers
as were used for the illumination of the town
streets ; notwithstanding which, the interruptions
of the light were so frequent, and the accidents
so serious, that the select committee on
light-houses, appointed in 1831 by the English
House of Commons, reported against the use
of gas.
The Drummond light is one frequently mentioned?it
is produced by the cuinhustiou of oxygen
and hydrogen gases with lime balls in the
focus of a parabolic reflector. This lighl is very
intense, but inapplicable to the illuminatiou of
light-houses. Its inventor, Lieut. Dtummond,
11. N., stated to the select committee of 1831,
that, tit Ins opinion, its use could not be adapted
to light-houses : at least not in its then condition.
The llude light, a specimen of which was cx- '
hibited, is produced by passing a current of oxv- !
gen gas through the flame of a lamp to increase !
its combustion. Like all other cases, where
gas is concerned, this is inapplicable to lighthouse
illumination.
In remote localities, it is impossible to prepare
the gas with any certainty, and the difficulties
being increased by the very serious consequences
that foil >w an explosion or an extension
ol the lights, will ever prevent its general adop- \
tion for light-houses.
The last one I shall notice was a polyzonal
lens. This is a very beautiful instrument, the
invention of M. Arago and Fresnel. The
French coa>t is lit up with them. To adopt
them for light-hopse illumination they are arr
i, n i, uil 1 a n rl 1
r"js"u v5"J |
are lighted by a Cured lamp of tour concentric
wicks placed in their common focus. Above i
and below the principal lenses, are placed tiers of
cui ved mirrors to intercept and project in horizontal
lines, parallel with (he axis of the lens, j
all the rays that escape above or below the lens.
There are sevi'ial of these lenses in (in at'
Britain, and two in the I'nited States?one at
the highlands of Neversink, and one at S.mdv
Hook, New York. That at Neversink is one
of the first order, and a complete specimen of,
its kind.
They were lilted up by the Filth Auditor of1
the Treasury, in 1839. Their great cost and
the difficulties of their management have hitherto
prevented Congress from making appropriations
for more.
Beside the difficulties of managing them,
they are more costly to maintain, unless in situ-,
aiions that require from twenty to thirty Argand
lamps on the present system to illuniinute. ^
There are but few such localities on our coast, j
sixteen lamps being as great a number as is
generally used. The lens exhibited was but
one of the sides of the polygon, without the accompanying
mirrors at top and bottom, and
gave but a meagre idea of the entire apparatus, ;
After a general review of tlie subject, (and
this is also the opinion of the select committer (
before referred to,) there appears to be no mode
of lighting light-houses so economical, so sure,
and so efficient, as that employed on the coasts
of Great Britain and the United States, viz. the
Catoptric system ; by mraiis of parabolical reflectors
and Argand lamps.
Great credit is due to the Fifth Auditor of
the Treasury, beneath whose carc our lighthouse
system has grown to its present condition
of excellence ; as it stands, it is a model of
economy and efficiency. No one is fonder of j
improvements than the writer, but every inno
ration is not an improvement; the exhibition |
referred to was ingenious and clever, but j
s far a* practicability it concerned, it wa. uselets.
H.
A'rr.m thf (Mil School Rrpiihliran.
That stauneh and able Democratic paper, "The
Patriot (Hartford) an.I Ragle," with Tjler and Porter
n \ ing at iU ma?t head, closet its remark* upon,
the proceed in gs of the Hepulilican (ierieral Commit-!
tee of New York, published in the (). 8. Republican
la.t wick, with the follow ing e ndor?ation of tke energetie
action of the rommittrr
Thtt i? proceeding in the light way, and the example
of our New York friend. muat he followed j
throughout the I moa A matt meeting it eontem- !
plated in I hit State, ami will probably be held in the
course of a month or two."
It it indeed, and in truth, "the right way." The j
p, pic are ritmg in their majesty, ami woe betide the
unlucky Wight who it found arreted again*! thein ? j
The people hate lees ridden more then enough by
selfish, trading politician* The people here too often
had their food hopet hated upon promitet made
when teeking Iheir ?olet hate too nOen had their
fomleti hope, hi at ted I hey ere readied to hare no
more of it President T)ler hat, in support of hit
principles, in deb-nee of the Constitution and right*
of the |>eoplr, patted thrtigh the fiery ordeal of |>ertreutron.
The people feel assured in his fa ithfulnett
In him they know they ran ronfule H.tprin
nplet are known Hit measures look lo the relief of
the people, and around them they are rallving We
say to our friend, erersw here, Ohio, this glorious
"liueen ol the Weal/' "the Repuhliean Banner
State." is nrenarin* for the mitlilr tlrnsrl. Al I
rend) i? aha buckling on the irmor for the fight.? j
She i? now (peaking in township*, rotinljr and district
public meeting* In a few month* *he will meet
in State ConTentiona, proclaiming to the Ameruan
people krr freedom fr<m tha degrading shackles of
party leader* Tha people of Ohio ara Democrats?
Hepuhlicana- Freemen, who, knowing, dare mainI
tain their ri|Ma
I ETTr.R TO TH* f * ufcWMIAl
Ki> K...A MM, W I*. tt>4l
Mi l>??. ?m : I. O... p*M * lb. < * U? ?
mm of p<?kw( frau4i mi M? Cwl Mb IK y tHMiil
M ruaiaiilUd U. (r?*l riu..!, riM M Umm4 to U
IIJ (NubtabU , ??4. > Mm. ml Mm.'*- M !* ??'4
d.M Ml rwiiHtnll| ukoI f?<Mo 1.1 Dm *i't> >
MvMichutl'lU
A ?rrj i? )-. i j .. r. . - .
in* to the ilaiaitrd id W I.if ? ** ?* < ?d H.? I
Hatch, row an atprraa Ul?r? u??a h4 ;
city of button . >Mf u fv | lot W ? i '
llofW, klltl U Iwll I ll? I I Ml*' >i < ' i ft
hat, M llu (itifiW Mif <! I?. r? if h Ho
diuiu of tlx pre**, air* *1) ? >**<1 U.? ?ol u# |U
Fwt nllir, llld H M I.W?lf liutt It. .M?. I
great proportion, if u<4 all iIm feu- n-tt (>? <?
tween Nr? Hrdloid and It <k4 >? rvgtiOtd
kioii of tirruli fulfill* I? i*fj< I'M
The frntli mm it rtllilul) pufmtai
should lie not be, tin. e Imp generally w. ig*>'? wholisalr,
and iWindlet tin h?l t Mki Ik . ....
at hulf price?III UlaltJ III*'.all. * (lal i
The putt age of a tingle lellti Vtlto \?t In.
lord ami Hut-inn, it ti n rw nit il it - gouuw
treble, it it tubjei t to doubW n ti> ,
pottage, at tlie rate inti be ho- li it li <ul>
and rule of the i'utt Oflnr Itrpailni- i Mi llti
or Cel. Hatch at be It railed III IP, I'll Iletii Iiti.ll .
tela all tliete things aatde and will l l< a dont>l> n>
gle,or tlirible, or ipiadrnplr letter to II ?ton l- i ?n
cents, ten relit*, two reiitt, oni c? nt, oi nothing and
deliver it into the bargain '
Such it Uie nature and rule and | > hity of < .
Hutch's pott oflne system Mi llalrli ai'tuimn * .< *
liiniHAtr In thai klatj* ?,f tlie liim-a tlul ll,? nriul,Illll,
person*; und if the writer of I letter hands ln< mi-Hive
to theColonel, with the remark, "I am p ? i
"the time* are hard," or "1 hav'ut gut the change
the kiod und benevolent Colonel arciimmuduUM him
self to the exigence! of the moment, and ?rt? a< <>i<l
ingly?that la to say, he gelt what lie run. and it satisfied.
Like many other men of the day and ag<
Col. Hatch belicvco in the doctrine ,uf uuivt rsul Innevolence,
and make! it a rule to charge the poor,
who patronise his post office, half price only
It is by no meant aingulur that audi a man at Col
Hatch should be vastly popular. He it one of the
largest lions in the menagerie , his praises and glories
are characterised by the "disciples and descendants
of the pilgrims of the old colony?holiest soult?
who write here, as you will see by the following article,
which I cut from the New liedlord Register of
this morning:
COL. HATCH.
If men are great in proportion as they are useful,
then is Col. Hatch a great mail. Now he is here,
directly he is in Boston, und anon we hear of him
'elsewhere,' und always busy as a bee, or as the sailors
have it, "the devil in a gale of wind." Is there
any thing new in the world, polilieul or moral) uny
accident, conflagration, or extraordinary event' It
is forthwith in the Colonel's valice for safe-keeping
Hoes the mull fall you, and young Kelzebuh grumble
at the prospects of a late night's work ? Lo, the Colonel
is ut your elbow, and the latest dates are at jour
semce, "per Hatch's Express," in advance of Lncle
Sam. Is there anything hidden from the world, that
the world wants to know ? The Col. has the secret,
and the event always shows that he was right. In all
proper things, and at ull proper times, he is at the
service of the people, and when, we think of it, we
never cease to wonder how the world went on without
luni so long. If gratitude is any remuneration
for servicts rendered, then the Col. has his reward,
for it warms every feeling heart iu the community.
Even our dtvxl is moved, and thus gives w ay to the
generous impulses of his soul:
Who hears of all the murders, fires,
Each thing, that here or there transpi es,
v ...i ku ini,.,H 5
The Colonel.
Who cast* iteam-packets in eclipse,
Horses and carrier-pigeona whips,
And Mercury himself outstrips ;
The Colonel.
Who knoweth all things, like a text,
And sometimes makes the Future vexed,
By telling what is coming next?
The Colonel.
Who always to the right is wed,
- And has a heart as well as head?
Don't name them " ttro lire Covni "?they're dead?
The paper which thus magnificently doses Col
Hatch in glory, is a Bentoniun chronicle, and goes
the whole figure in opposition to all violations of
honor, truth and justice. But the praisisof Colonel I
Hatch are not confined to that vehicle. There are
four Whig Clay-coon papers here, and they most ,
cordially unite with the Bentonian opposite in
chaunting hosannas to the renowned Colonel
Hatch.
You w ill see that one-half of the eulogium that is
contained in the foregoing article, is based on the alleged
fact, that (ol. Hatch supplies news in advance
of the mail, and in the absence of the mail. The allegation
is impudently and insolently false.
Whenever the mails fail Colonel Hatch's Fx press
fails, for he travels by the very same means of conveyance
that is employed to transport the mail. He
cannot travel otherwise. The thing is utlcily unpos
siblc. The only difference there is between that individual's
"Kxpress," as he calls it, in the way of arrival,
is this When the cars arrive here they bring
Mr Hatch and the mails w ith them. The former ^
are, of course, conveyed to the post office, and there
are assorted. This operation occupies some eight or
ten minutes. Mr. Hatch, having his post office in
"his vehicle," and being subject to no law of restraint
or of regulation, the moment he grts here, takes to
his heels, and succeeds in delivering a newspaper
to each of the printing offices, and {
to one of the principal hotels, a few moments
Ire fore they could lie got at the post office.
And this is what is called getting news in advance of
the mail, and the basis on w hich is laid the argu- ,
tneiit of those who would sanction the frauds that i
are perpetrated on the Post Office.
1 wan not a little amused yesterday Willi the cool
impudence of this Col. Hatch. I came, to this town
with linn, from the Boston railroad station at Koxburgh
; and, after we had got on about one half of
the route, lie assailed nie with,
"Excuse me, sir! You're from the South, I
take it
"I am, sir."
"From New Y'ork, I s'pose I"
"Yea, sir, from New York."
"Any news in York, sir >"
"No, sir, nothing of any consequence."
"You hav'nt got any New Y'ork papers with you, I
hare you I"
"Yes, sir; I base a copy, I believe, of the NewYork
Evening Post of Monday, and a copy of the
(Courier and Enquirer."
"Could 'nt spar* 'ein, I s'pose?"
"Certainly, sir ; they arc very much at your service."
'
"Thank you, sr, I'm a stranger to you; but al- ,
ways like to get the papers"'
I accordingly handed the Evening Tost and the
Courier and Enquirer to the renowned Col. Hatch .
and, in fumbling over my pockets, 1 found two or
three penny pa|<ers, which I handed him
He received them grae ously ; handed them to the (
printers and hotel-kcc(>ers, and, this morning, received
credit in all the newspapers for furnishing I
them with papers and news in advance of the mails' 1
Such it a fair specimen of Ihe humbug and gain- I
nrton that ir? nnw nrarfiied in swindle liie Pn?l (tfT,r +
Dwparlmrnt Yourt, kr (
X.. .of Y
> cm Y?c* eorrrayontrncr.
Nt- Ttu, r.b 90 1843
Int.-* T.*i?mU Mn CkmU, F Miller?
aa >>i?J >IM? ato Ik. M'orM tj
ImJu- - . AW AW.1 *?ton fy?r? bu*up
Mag*i i. trr trr
I Mi Nn IMt I IB tofcwto IU> Ittil Half ?u ? .
aamd aaatarw ha ?l li).M Kiida) nigtil, Wad what
>. ?..?! dapt ra m i. Mitwf uf |<i?>ni *ar? dm
kvf>d TW part Millar* uf tlw turliiH-bulj atfaif,
jmm til M * tf*? *r (.?|wr>> u4 to Ikm jfuu am
nJmmI
Two mlmtti wi|ihM mi that nld and lurioui
iy>? atolwm III, m Iha jun l?U, and T? .
mm*- Ma wad. uU mdiacad Una to Irauafm in it,a
i?o (nyayki and I*m ?l aalan ilwU Tba " oaMa*
kah" a( Ti?) aaia aafcrani 4, and Ml ta a
?dan a IM iah)aatod Una to lha (aaialauM J
a*' < and ! >>>' in. ? anlai? ?>)? aaafamhar
Tha Mtonlii. I am told, haaa mania IM awl uf
lima uraaaiaaal tor if lama a* Tray, and rlana llaa
aa anamag ndraanaf Mm iari?<to.aa of thai Uaatdal
Ua *j ?d (nana ?i?h lavlm aa thai th? m
ramd adaaaa ad mm Maaaad 1. id and Maaaur. anaai
atad a 1* to altradaid h) a fmitl mmffagratKia
Ml and Mia I toM I Motor. Mm "man and
aito atoxil ataa aa aatarh r-iamaa* Itoa haan anil
a ton awilto^ad. arriaad ra Una nt), yarlrrda)
ti m Vanuh k nf?>a Mr Motor * aa iaimt diait
I; artaaUd. rhargad a4k fun Mi iMui ling h? ?if>
' and attar Ua> m( aadarguaa a Mrrrt raaannaluii. brf
i a lha Ma) .U a at told a taaii in llaa >ua ml ffJ.OUn
'Dm raammaUua aaa a rum ma affair, and dtnk|a
a* odd atote of thing* TW tod) dvr-larad lhal ahilai
aha aaa abaa at, har hu*l and llralid bar a ill, kind
m aa aad taanl) (uud a ill aadMumgh ha had tofarm
iffwImilNI to tf' i to aria *f rndraara, kr arm mMimf I
rd aa) Ikinf * fka kind Ml,a atoudr* ar*d and aaurr
11,a l ikr wea wot all aid of III* that lie oat klhl to
her ; but. M tW hum Imh, alia M M ?nk, w ia
land lu It** wlib Kim
From the time and < urn nt of tin cauuittatton.
11 i|i|Mirul U>at Ml and Miu Millrf cluruli I
| ear h other a mutual love and altarhmrnt, and tlial
| thry may a?> ! mil live uri comfortably l.gill
and be irrj happy together, if meddling and annate,
diapoaed people will I. ate Uirui alone ami ju rn.it
tin 111 to iiiiimI tin If own nuaineae
Without ki?>w mg anything |? r-imlli ul Mr a.
Mr?, Miller, and moat aaeurrdly without intruding t<
intrude on their eflam, I atiall not Imitate to any that
they will, era the lujiee of a fortnight, live again I
geliter >< man and wife, ha|i|>y in each ..ther t embraces,
and rejoirmg in each others welfare Mr.
Miller la evidently " a man, etery inch a man," and
front the iiegimiing to Hie end of thia huameaa hat
done nothing more than a???-rt ho righla, though it
may U vtry true that he ha*, in tlie impetuosity id
hia |iauuon, sometimes done liner thing* w Inch ate
wrong.
We had an arrnal from llairr, yesterday, hi in,; , ,
latiT datea froln Frailer and Fogland than those jni
vioualy received. They are not iinjinrlant
The " World of Faahion" haa, to-day, been *<r>
much allocked hy the reported hankruj>t> y of onr u:
the leader* of the t/uu i?i. niir, "a lloil," who waa t <
I. ader of " good aociety ami it la wluaja-red 11.at
acts of forgr ry ami ?w uidltng are connected with
cataatrophe.
Bulwer'a new novel, "The luist of the Baron,
haa hud a very eilensite and profitable run. 'I
llarpera got out a very eorrect ami a very hand*
edition at !io cent* the ropy other editiona I
been brought out for oiu vkifhng.
The ajieerh that KoavaT Tuva. Kmj , dclivrn
the Iriah Repeal Meeting, in Washington, hat t.r
republiahed. and received with great avidity and /
In thia city. It ia warmly commended by Irivhu.r
and the fiieitda of Irivhuiea and Ireland, of all rlu>.
e* and parties l ain told that that eitunabh pralaie,
liltliof) lllll'hr* ait i'*t? til II 11.? -
uin it hat received in all other part* of the I
Mr T)lrr may well he proud of Uic ?IIorl
Mr. Edward Hlanly, I tee, on Katuniay latt tu
terrd up rour.ij enough to enable Knit to bark at
the Pretidenv
Youra,
Nuiil is Nan Yuaa
From llu .hkantat l'<Ufrap\ ej Ftb 1
THE RED RIVER FLOOD !
tiRKAT IvtfHH OP Lift I!
It becomeaour painful and melancholy duty t<
cord one of the m<>vt fearful and ealanutnui <>
that etrr betel our Red river country
In conac^uence ol the falling weather or the no
ingot the anoMr in tlie mountain#. Ike aouree* ol K>
river have been aupplied ao abundantly with ??
ihat our hitherto <)uite gentle vlream, hav bee
flooded that all of itv botloma lie buried bene..!,
heavy m,aa of mo*ing avaler. whi te appearance
vi audden and rapid that it hat Ivine r< titllett i i
ever* ve-tane ol tinmen uuliMiet ?"? k?1
ton prex*t?, com, rallle, borar*, hog*. kr , iti I
wide and general mill. I
III cot* in oil willi every ?lrraui un Ihe ghdw. Hi K
river haa been aubjecl to orcavional but partial in I
ilaliont ; but, during the jwriod of ball a rrnlun W
there wm never know n ?urh an un iwln limn; flow'
a* Dial Willi which m are now n-iinl
At FortTow?on on the'J5lh ull , the river r
fifteen feet higher llian ever liefore known *pre .
over the whole botlOM. destroying the wareho,.-,
Ihe public landing, and (weeping III one cnitiii.
grave all ?i.erir? of animation.
From a letter politel\ furnished n?, it ap|war* I
Jone?bor?High. Rowland, and Iterlm, in Traa*. h.
Iieen wholly inundated, a<>me of the houwi wot'
way, and many of Ihe inhabitant* drowned I '
letter further Mate* that *ome few nrgnei ? ?
from Joneaborcugh on a raft, and when pe?*mr
revidence ol t 'olonel Jam. * II Jotnot n the*
him. with hi* family, on tin hoo*e top, hut could i
der them no aaai*tanee ; and anon after p<**ing, 11.?
heard a rra?h and ooe wild *ereim, and all w a* ?il
again except the roar of the rii*liu>g torrent '
Amid the general dialrtxa, fapt Crook* of I1
iteamboat Hunter proceeded In Mill creek, and r.
rlered the aiiffeu r* every povtihle ?ueror in hi* |
er, going from place to place picking up th. aurvn
from the tup* of bnuae* and tiee? , tnu* rescuing <
a watery grave venty-hve or a hundred p? r>
Some were neco*?nrily left to peri*h Iti the c.n
timlier, a* there w a* no poaaihle way of r
lliem their erie* often being heard almie tl.i
of the element. Six familu * of Indian*. 14 n
lliiw *idc of Jonrvlmrougli, are repotted hMilam,
of Kentucky, W illi a lady, hi* nn
Mr. McKmoey, periahed
It la thought that over a hiimlred live* !,??
lost between Fulton ami Jm.<-borough i
we, al yet, cannot Willi certainty prrdirah
sourvns 111 hik rniau .ii ? hi m i al? .> ,
plicil nf'ic-f. Owuif.tii (It Krral nunt'irr <>l ..
on tha bo(tom> >if K?d river, the lo-s of pr |.
human life inu?( be immense yet ?e would (a
lieve nut *<> great a* is genera Ij reported, t..
hope that the accounts given u* have (men r?i.
rated
The river is still ruing, but very slowly. [
H AMPTON S M AO A/IN P. DF.POT
We have received from Hampton K Sons tl.?
uartr number of Hsai.rMT't Mtoartst
The February number of S?.?a'? Ksmiii MIlKt
And the January number of the [U.T' v Pi. <i
ill Valuable and interesting works
SUPREME COURT UNITED H I \TI "
W matins v, February C*J, I" 43
Present as yesterday :
No. 30. Thomas C, Kiln, rt a I . n M D Tl> ' i
idminbtrator.
The judgment of the Cirruit Court United b "
Tor Alabama, ill this rsine was affirmed with '?
sndsis percent damsf-e"
;*< >. .1- l(ie l nileil Ktatr* plaintiff, ri Mlykford'i
executor*.
The argument. of (hi* r?n*e wa* nomrr.r
Mr. Attorney General for the plaintiff, end co-it
?d by Mr IxirH for the defendant*
Adjourned uil to-morrow I) o'rloek, A \J