_ NASHVILLE, Jan. 14.
By a.gentleman just arrived from
Natchez we are informed, that the in
habitants of that diftri&, have it in’
contemplation to build a veflel of
force, forthe use of the United States,
and that he saw upwards of. 3,000
dollars subscribed already for that
purpose. 7 ;
NEW-YORK, May 6.
Capt. Galloway, in 27 days from
St. Kitts, informs us, that the a&ive,
enterprizing, and gallant TR U X
TON, has taken another French pri
vateer, of 6 guns, bound from St.
Bartholomews to Guadaloupe. She
had long been notorious for her fuc
cefsful industry in taking our mer
chantmen. May such be the fate of
every plundering marauder.
The person who has defiled the sa
cred title of Priest, and the tenets of
our holy religion, by taking a conspi
cuous lead among the conspirators of
Northampton, it appears, has been.
but a short time in the country, and
was, previous to his emigration, an
intimate disciple of the famous, or
rather infamous Weithaupt, the chief
-of the illuminati of Europe.
BOSTON, May 13.
. A letter from the Havanna, dated
the 6th instant, received at Baltisaore,
.confirms the account we have already
received, of the yellow fever raging
at that place. Among a number of
other American veflels, there was one
from New-York, with about 70 men,
almost the whole of whom were ta
ken down.
The Havanna has hitherto been ge
- merally healthy, but owing to the vast
_influxof ftrangers,and the army which
is colleCted there to the number of
30,000 men, it will hereafter for a
long time probably be a hot bed for
the fever, and the worst of all the i
slands. The refle®ion will, no doubt,
fuggelt proper measures to the health
committee for the fafety of this city.
There will, in the next Congress,
on the nioft moderate computation,
be seventy odd Federal members.
Gen. WASHINGTON, on the day
of election in Virginia, mounted his
old Iron Grey Charger, and rode 10
miles to the County Court-House, to
vote for his brave old brother soldier,
Col. Powell, who is happily ele&ted.
[Com. Adv.]
U Let this example be carefully recorded,
and repeated on the morning of every
. election of public officers.
Tbe fame ilufirious charalter, awhen
lately draswn, as Furyman for the In
ferior Court of bhis Diflriét, cheerful
ly acggpted, and discharged the munici
pal duty of a citizen in that capacity.
An Great Britain, it is a [erious cause
of complaint, that men of talents and
information, commonly find means of
exempting themselves from the task of
setting as Furymen, and- thaty by a
cuflom much to be regretted, the impor
tant truf? of deciding on the property,
liberty, and lives of her fubjelis, too
generally devolves on the lower and
more ignorant class of citizens. . Some
parts of this country bave too much rea
son for the fame complaint. Let the
example of the American Cincinnatus
bave its aweight in correfling this grie
vance. ~
CONFLAGRATION.
On Saturday morning last, between
the hours of 2 and 3, a fire broke out
in Newbury-fireet, which destroyed
eleven dwelling houses, several barns,
and other out-buildings. The fire is
supposed to have kindled in Mr. Mer
chel’s barn ; from thence communi
cated to Mr. Adams work shop, the
dwelling houses of Mr. Merchell, 4nd
Mrs. Hunt, the buildings of Mr. Jar
vis, eight of which it consumed ; and
the dwelling house of Meflrs. Childs &
Cole, with the stables adjoining. -
The principal fufferers are Mr. John
Jarvis, who in 2 moment is deprived
of the property which was accumulat
ed by long and labourious industry ;
Mr. - Abraham Adams, who loft a
valuable work shop, and the principal
part of his stock and tools ; Mr. Mer
chel’s, who loft much of his furniture,
stock to a considerable amount, and
several horses and carriages ; Miss
Mary Yorkis, who owned the building
occupied by Mr. Merchell 3* Meffis.
Childs and Cole ; and Meflrs. George
Groupner, Capt. George Wheelwright,
Patrick Kenny, John %litchell’, Timo
thy Peafe, jr. James Brewer, Lewis
Degoy, and Henry Fullerton ; who
occupied the row of buildings owned
by Mr. Jarvis, and who have Io&’ great
p;rt\of their furniture and wearing
apﬁzrel. P e L A
The Dutch begin likewise to mim
ick the French gaiety. The follow
4atg commient on French Mwm
Howund JealomiGyy wys luscly. afive
L .
" urlibety s that 2o one can g 0
OGN PAYIRE 0% . U
Our equality; that in a véry little
time we shall be all beggars alike ;
and our fraternity, like that of Cain
and Abel, cutting each other’s throats.
SOLEMN TRUTHS.
“If the government of the United
States had been cherithed and support
ed by its citizens in proportion to its
merit ; if patriotism, old fafhioned
patriotism, not the love of other na
tions, but of our own, had been as
dittinguithing a trait in the Ameri
can charafter as it has been in the
British, or even in the French, we
thould have been at this moment one
of the most powerful, independent
and prosperous nations in the world:
United, all the world could not make,
and therefore would not attempt, a
conquelt of us—divided, we should
fall an ealy prey to a contemptible
and infignificant foe.”
: Charleflony April 30.
Yesterday arrived the ship Mary,
Pope, Eruma, 14 days. -
On Monday morning last, in the
Gulph Stream, Capt. Pope fell in with
five large ships of war, having under
convoy upwards of 70 fail of veflels ;
he did not fpcak either of them ; they
are supposed to be th¢ Leeward Island
fleet bound to England. '
. Capt. Atkins of the John Bnlkley,
on his passage from Phil.d. * + on
the 22d inst. being then to e
of Cape Look out, feil in v a nuin
ber of pipes, half-pipes, qu i icr-catks,
and had-quarter-cafksof Malaga wine,
a freth gale blowing, prevented Capt.
Atkins frometaking up more than fix
casks containing about 1 5 gallons each,
these catks branded X. P. joined and
AP,
A midshipman of the Constellation
landed yesterday morning from the
Union [prize] with dispatches from
Commodore TrRuxTON.
The Insurgent we hear is daily ex
pected in Hampton Roads—She, will
be refitted at Norfolk.
¢ Boston, May 11.
There has been an embargo on A
merican veflels at Surrinam, from the
3d of Feb. ’till the 25th of March, in
which time, there arrived three Span
ish frigates, with troops, three Dutch
frigates failed for Europe, and four
French schooners for Cayenne, with
provisions for that colony ; we were
informed that the troops of Cayenne,
were-in a £ate of revolution, on ac
count of there being no provision in
the colony, owing as they fay to the
ill treatment, that the Americans
have met with. oo
Capt. John Fillebrown, in the brig
Speedwell belonging to Meflrs. Peirce
and Wait, of Salem, was boarded on
his passage from La Vera Cruz, to
the Havanna, by an English frigate,
ahd robbed of cash to the amount of
several thousand dollars ; the seamen
stripped of every shilling, and their
very shoes torn asunder, in search for
gold ; the bills the capt. had on the
Havanna, destroyed, and the account
of sales defaced. The captain of the
frigate insolently ‘gave Capt. F. a re
ceipt of the articles plundered, with
out signature, and difimifled him with
every mark of contumely and difre
{pect. | |
The ship Fame, Storor, from New-
York, has been captured on the banks,
by a French privateer and sent for
France. -
The brig Juno, Freeman, arrived
here from St. Croix, 21 days ; Con
stitution, Capt. Nicholson, failed iil co.
for Boston. '
S ALEM, May 10.
COMMUNICATION. :
SHALL we any longer amuse
ourselves with hopes of a negociation
with France ? Has she not spurned
our meflengers of peace, and despised
the avowal of our complaints ? But
this apparent contempt veils an aétiv
ity that will indeed convince us what
contemptible things we are, if we fuf
fer ourselves to be duped by her arti
fices. It ought to awaken sentiments
of indignation, and an elevation of
foul, in the American people, that
would rife superior either to French
arts or arms. Those men who, flying
in the face of fa&s, and would fill fti
fle your manly resentments by the
hollow profeflions of French amity,
are deceived, or they are knaves and
hypocrites | Yet, yere they conEltent,
in these characters, they should, we
think, hold out a more specious lure
_to entrap us, than the hope of Galli¢
friendfhip ; this having no moral tie
for its foundation, no feature of inter
est or affection to coalesce our hearts.
Treaties and nationalcompa&sFrance
has abandoned to contempt ; and the
laws of nations; their enlightened poli
ticians have voted a musty farago of
nonsense. With what sense of pro
priety,~then, can our gﬁvemmt
treat, or What reliance could be placed
on the faith of treaties-made with this
nation ? Her charadter is exalted to
anexampled baseness, by her perfidies
and infernal intrigues ! Yet, a vile fat-
ticn can dare to juftify the French,
blame our own government; misrepre
sent its measures, and calummiate its
ornaments. But its partizans cannot
adduce any thing but what will prove
its wisdom, and love of peace;{o long
as its own exiltence was not threaten
ed. . Pin them up to faés, ind smoke
is more solid than the positions they
build upon ! Whatever they may
alledge,—their ultimate design s
the overthrow of the Federal Gov
ernment ; they have system here ;
but in their views, afterwards, they
are as various as the classes of men
which compose the jacobin faction.—
Some are f{timulated by ambitious
hopes ; others, actuated by levelling
principles, a hatred of laws, and prof
peéts of plunder ; while others are the
{laves of obstinate prejudices. In this
lafticlafs, are to be found some imen
of property ; and the tie of property,
to {ay the least, is as strong in these
men, as in others. What then but the
most stupid judgments, and blunder
ing calculations, can induce these men
to risk the overturning of a govern
ment which prowds their interests,
and every thing else valuable in so
ciety—and, perhaps, the beholding in
its stead a five headed monster arise
on its ruins, that would prote& neither
virtue, liberty or property ? ‘ln truth,
at any other time but the present, we
might despise thisill assorted fa&ion !
It has the heterogeneous principles of
confufion in its bosom, and fyftema
rized in nothing but its views of des
truction. Here the deformed enemy
of society with infernal a&ivity works,
aided by Gallic patrons ; and will
finally prevail, and we shall be meta
morphosed into a nation of bastards,
atheists, murderers and impofters, un
less the Federalifis abandon every
other objeét as a secondary duty, and
give government their firlt cares, as
the preserver of their temporal happi
ness. =
PORTSMOUTH, Mar 14.
MASONIC.
On Monday the 6th inst. it pleased
the Most Worfhipful NaThaniEL
Apaws, Esq. Grand Master of Masons
for the State of New-Hampthire, to
inftal, the Brazine Star' Lobpge, at
Concord. The solemnities of the day
were opened by prayer ; a very ele
gant piece of sacred harmony succeed
ed ; and a discourse on the origin and
design of Masonry, followed. ‘The
Grand Malter duly assisted by the R.
W. Dr. Govg, ading as D. G. M. pro
tem, then proceeded to the consecra
tion, installation and investiture of the
R. W. Col. D. WarNEr, as Master of
the Blazing Star Lodge ; together with
his Wardens, Deacons and other offi
cers. After which a splendid, elegant
and brilliant Oration was pronounced
by H. Aruerton, Esq; and solemn:
music concluded the impreflive scene.
The fraternity then returned to Bro
ther Gale’s, and participated of proper
refrelhment. These very brief out
lines are {ufficient for common readers:
but as the Brotherhood may feel them
selves gratified, by more particular in
formation, it is therefore added :—
. That upwards of 70 Brethren, com
posing several different lodges, in the
proper habiliments and insignia of the
order, gave their attendance on the
pleasing occasion ; Besides a number
of visiting members from various parts
of the country, and those gentlemen
who did themf{elves the honor to ac
company the Grand Master from
Portsmouth. A most capital band of
instrumental performers, placed ex
adtly in the centre, enlivened the /ine
of march, on the lkngth and breadth of
the oblong square. At entering the
Rev. Mr. M’Farland’s meeting house,
the Mafinic eye was charmed with an
elegant display of feminine Beauty ;—
Beauty to whose fafcinating powers,
awifdom and flrength alike pay pleasing
homage. It is fuppefed that little
short of 1500 fpetators were present,
and nearly one balf of this crowded
assembly shone in female charms, the
charms of elegance. and taste. = The
orchestra was filled, by a fele& band
of vocal and instrumental performers,
the exquisite harmony of whose sweet
ly melodious tones, are yet vibrating
on the ear of music : Every amature
of the sacred art {fpoke in rapture of
the concluding hymn ¢ It was ene of
those irrcﬁﬁibl_e energies of composi
tion and execution which might have
soothed despair and éalmed outrage
ous phrenzy. G. M.Apawms, appeared
worthy of himfelf; of Masonry’s most
exalted honors and of virtue’s brightest
diadem. His charges and addresses
to the master ele and his brothes.
officers, combined truth, precifion,elo
quence and neatness. The impreflions
of the moment wete felt ; the) are ens
graven on-the tablet of the heart ; but
they cannot be described, by the pen
of the readiest writer. ' Brother Ather
ton’s oration was an excéllent perform
ance : It ably refuted the cavils of
ignorance ; the malice o exmity, and.
must have blushed for himfelf ; and
the tear of penitence. The ladies were
peculiarly pleased at a handsome com.
pliment addrefled to beauty and vir
tue, and every female of delicacy and
good sense trinmphed in the Masonic
lover and friend ; persuaded that his
wisdom and firength would always pro
tet her timidity and weakness.—The
entertainment at Brother Gale’s was
in true Masonic style ; the tables amply
provided with every needed refrefh
ment ; and dinner and attendance
served in a most fatisfactory manner.
The transitory regrets of a moment
were not felt in the course of the day,
excepting those painful sensations
which the absence of the neighboring
clergy occasioned, who were deprived
of dining with the Grand Lodge, by
the unufuial lateness of the hour, at
which they fat down, as works of dis-
Serent kinds precluded all thought of
dinner until almost §P. M. Never
theless; the lodges retired at an early
hour, and nothing immoral or inde
cent disgraced the “feaft of reason and
the flow of foul.””—The attendant
lodges feel them{elves under every ob
ligation to the inhabitants of Concord,
for the cheerfulnefs with which they
granted the use of the meeting house,
a large, handsome and elegant build
ing. The feletmen are refpetifully
thanked for a ready compliance with
the request of those gentiemen, whe
signed the petition, for the liberty of
performing the solemn duties of Ma
sonry, in theghoufe of prayer and
praise ; and the musical society and
vocal choristers are sincerely tendered
all poflible acknowledgments for the
generous afliftance which they so
readily afforded. It is only to be re
gretted that the Rev: Mr. WiLrarp,
of St. John’s could not attend by rea
son of severe bodily indisposition :—
"The barmonies of the day had then been
absolutely perfec?, nor the found of the
hammer heard in any part of the cours
without the zemple.
Hail, Mystic art ! ineffable, sublime !
Sweet band of Charity ’mz'd’c’v’r)' clime
Wihofe silken cord in gentlest fetters binds, -
Ten thousand thousand, varying forms and
minds ; : .
1 bid thee hail. Blefl magic pow’r, tis thine,
Thou Son of hght and lase and love divine ;
One tide of bliss around the {phere to roll ;
And bid all nations breathe one kindred foul
A foul that feels forjoy ; that mells at hu
man woe, :
And burns with bleft philanthropy’s celestial
glow. :
Suck was the gen’rous, humane, lender, kird,
Warm, fervent, feeling, pitying, tender
mind, :
OQf Patriot WARRENY, no less good, than
reat,
WaRrR E%J. Grand Mafler of a fiJter State.
And fuck the friendfhip, labors, love & zeal,
Of Hiwm, whefe loss as MAsONSs, MEN
we feel ; Al .
Jackson, the _honor’d, lov’d, fraterpal
name, _
Jackson, whose [pirit rapt in virtue’s
Jlame,
Round kindred, fellow man, the rays of heal
ing pour’d, . :
Set bounds to death, and life, from death
itfelf, reflor’d. ; :
To SCIENCE, VIRTUE, MASONRY most
dear, !
On both, we drop, the fond, fraternal tear ;
The [prig of Callia plant around their tombs,
That fragrant [prig, which ever deathless
blooms ; 2 o piys deas
But why, ok why, the gem g t :
Regret’?sl deep j%ks ; and friendfhip’s fad
: adieu ¢
AWARREN, JacksoN live, they live
confeft, A
In 817, whofe{quare is set on honor’s breast ;
His comrpass sweeps the [elf fame moral,
social round; '
And Apawms, light, love, peace, fßall
Jpread to Hampshire’s bound,
*Grand-Mafler Dr. W ARRER, fell on
the memorable heights of Breed’s-Hill :
—He received his mortal rwoz;nd on the
mowntain of glory 3 and freedom berfelf
abept at the Pftriot Heroe’s grave. G’r}{nd
mafler Dr. Jackson fell upon the plains
of Portsmouth, be received his death wound
in the wvale of humanity. Philanthropy
rose up and mourned the Physician’s un
timely fate, [cience dropped a tear, on her
Jfavorite medical son 3 and thé powers of
bealing chaunted bis funeral dirge. e
children of sensibility, who delicately decide
on moral charalier, to whom does the palm
of the shilder virtues belong ? Both merit
ai equdl diadem : Both were miniffers
[fent forth to minifler to awoe . :
Round one, the lamp of martial glory burns ;
Heclaims the meed of honor’slaurel’d wreath,
For one, Philanthropy in Jackcloth mourns ;
And sorrowing aoman fill laments hisdeath..
" Virginia have ele&ted TEN federal
members of Congress, out of Nincteen.
In the last Congress, the Ancient Do
minion could boast of but three Fed
eralists. 8 _
Muazrine Fovavar.
Arrived here the brig Guflavus, Capt.
Geo, F. Blunt, 26 days from Antigua,
via St. Thomas’s—Left at Antigua 3d
April, feh. Mercury, Stone, and foh s
Drummond of Kennebunk<——dpril 11,
left St. Thomas’s in company awith 40.
Jails under convgy of the U. 8. Sloop of
War Baltimore, among which was fcb'r
~———Nowel; of Nc@b*qféﬂ 5 Jhip Co-
Nupibia, nyf%ﬁ#{ rig Harmony,
igpange e, Bec/ord il %ﬂm
Hacket, N, Tork; fbip Mary-dnn, Steav
art, Philadelplia ;. [chooner. Peggyy
Gripth, Nrfoh s arig Rover, Chay
LR B R LR e O R
Alrifbury. Apr{! 27, lat. 36-,| 20, long.
67, 30, [poke ship Polly of Salemy, W,
Mupford, mafler ; brig Pully of M
blebead, F. Rufkcy mafler, and e
Srom: Beverlyy bound tothe, Havanna, sut
9 days, all avell, another Jel’r auas in
company. - : : ,
Arrived at Neawbury-Port the fifth
inst. beig Union, Capt. Hovey, §6 days
Sram Cork ; <)o informs that the [hip
Allizator, Harris, 38 days from Ports
mouth, (N. Hv) avas caff away at Kin-
Jale, and awent to pieces—cargo partly
Javed wwith damage. e
© Arrived at Boston, brig W, illiam, Par-
Jomsy 48 days from Cape de Verds, left
at hlzdeira, brig Felicity, Birewn, of
Portfmonthy for St. Martins.
Capt. Kimbell, arrived at Charles
ton, in 44 days {rom I ondon,informs,
that a great number of American sai
lors had lately been released from the
British ships of war, it was reported
to the number of three or four thou
{and, many of whom were working
for their passages home, on board, of
American rherchantmen. ;
Extraét from the Log-Book of the brig Or
lando, Henderson, from Surrinam, arrivid
at Boston in 44 days. -
Sailed from Surrinam, with 56
other American veflels, urider convoy
of the Portsmouth {loop of war. Dan
ie] M'Neil, who convoyed us as far to
the northward, as 23d long. 61, and
then informed us he was going back
to Jamaica. After that, we kept com
pany several days with Capts. Hop
kins, Davis, Bailey, Cafwel, Tilden,
Harding, &c. all for Boston. Ran
dell and Patten for Szlem. - On the
3d of May, fell in with the brig Pru
dence of Newburyport, from Surri:
nam, bound to Newbury, who had
been taken by a Freauch privateer
sloop of 16 guns, ene 18 pounder,fout
12’s and eleven ¢’s from the Havan
nah, bound to France ; they took out
the Capt. Supercargo, mate, and four
people, and put seven Frenchmen on
board, and ordered her for France.—
After a few days the three Americans
that were left on board, rose and re
teok the vessel, but had no navigatof
on board, except the prize-master ;—s
Capt. Henderson thought proper to
take him and one man out, and put
Mr. Copeland,and two men on board;
with orders to make the best of his
way to Newburyport; to the ownery
Mr. Leonard Smith, where tfhe arri
ved fafe on Friday last. '
A brig belonging to Portland, and
two {chooners ot Petersburg, were sent
into Guadaloupe about the zcth
March. ’ :
Thirty-nine American veflels failed
from St. Thomas the 11th April; uns
der convoy of the Baliimore {loop of
war. :
ENTRIES at the CUSTOM.HOUSE:
Schaoner Indufiry, Trefethen, Antigua;
Brig Little Cherub, Shackford, Havanna:
Scl’r Hiram, Appleton, St. Chriflophers.
CLEARED,
Ship F, arnyy Jenkiny, St. Bartholomeays.
Brig Annay Tredick, Barbadees.
I S G st
MARRIED ]~ At Exeter, by the Rev.
Mr. Rowland, Mr. Joun Dean, jr.
merchant, to Miss Nancy Boarbman.
e eoI SR v A
DIIED—At Boflon, on Friday afters
noony, Mr. Thomas Adams, late Editor
of the Independent Chronicle; aged 4%
years.
At Sandwich, The Hom. Daniel Bedee,
late fudge of the Court of Common Pleas
Jor the County of Strafford.
At Berwick, 'on Friday last, Miss Fanny
Hovey, daughter of Doét. Ivory Hovey.
In this town, Mrs. Rachael Low, wifeof
Mr. Joseph Low, Jenior.
1 pass with melancholy fate, o
By all these solemn heaps of fate &+ -
And think, as foft and [ad [ tread
Above the v nerable dead, ;
¢ Tume was, like me, they life poffe/s’d 3
“And time will be, when I _fhall rest.”
FOR SALE,
A HO USE with a
large lot of land; at the South
erd of the town, with a good tvater
privilege, and an excellent well of
water—very commodious for a feat
of retirement from the populous part
of the town ; the fame will be fold
on reasonable terms and the payment
made ealy—For particulars inquire
of the printer. '
Portsmouth, May 14, 1799,
HE subscribers being appoint-
T ed Commissioners by the ITon.
Samuel Tenney, E{q. Judge of Pro.
bate for the county of Rockingham,
State of New-Hampthire, to receive
and examine the claims of the feverad
creditors to the estate of WILLIAM
PLUMMER, late of Portsmouth, ia
said. county, merchant, deceased, re
presented insolvent, hereby give no
tice that they will attend on- that bu
siness, on the last Mpn'dax of 'this and
the five following months, from 4to
6 o'clock; P. M. at the store of Mefirs.
‘Prout and. Parsons in Newbury-Port.
- Apransm WHERLWRIGHT,