sense of its real interests, to the glory it boasts,
with what a tremendous vengeance may it not
overwhelm the authors of this unparalleled
atrocity! If it be alive to the honor it certainly
once possessed, and which we hope it) et re
tains, it will at least consign them to the harm
less walk of private life.
We rejoice to perceive that as yet, on this
head, but one feeling animates our countrymen,
and that federalists as well as republicans, Last
ern as well as Southern m.n, denounce the
conduct of the British government with equal
spirit. This proves, that, notwithstanding the
collisions of party, the great hotly on each s de
is at heart sound—Hence, amidst tin: evii
wiiich this conduct will produce, it will brine
with it
pernaps the greatest blessing that could |
be conterred, timon. Honorable men ol a.l
, ,, , , .
classts will unite, and rally round their own
laws, government and rights
There are some individuals, who embrace
tius occasion, to condemn the credulity, us they
are pleaded to style it, of then own govern
But, on deliberation, we are satisfit d I
they will pl'unouunce a different judgment.—
Our government had no reason to question tiie J
authoilty ot f,r. Lrskine to ufler the ttrms ot j
accommodation agreed upon. 1 hey were hitch,
as we had expected would result from our men
sures ; they were such indeed, as wert d elated
by the true interests ol Great Britain herr.elf.
.1 hey were proposed by an agent of the highest
rank, were explicitly declared to emanate di
rectly from liis government, and were ratified
with the utmost solemnity. Lor the breach ol
a contract, thus spontaneously and formally
made, the annals ofcvilized communities did
not furnish a p ecedent.
ter, moreover, of i\ir. Lrskine for intelligence
and probity stood fair and even high, so lair
and so high that Mr. Canning, thougn a polic
ed enemy, in Parliament lepresented 1
el stingvished for his fidelity and talents. Under
such citcumstances to have refused to accede
to the terms submitted, would have rtmlerer.
the Executive obnoxious to the imputation o(
indi.posit.on to restore the amicable rela
tions ot tlie two nabobs, and have given a han
dle to taction to further its worst views. Th
wistl un of the act has been attested by the al
most un,versai approbation, not to say jo. vvi.h
which it was received by the p-ople.
afforded them too the occasion of proving to the
hi n.icxt hostility abroad the sincerity of theii
wishes to be on good terms with England. And
finally, tiie upprob iioti of Conen -,s, it is b.
lieved Without a disv mien',
upon it
ellectuaiiy to unite the
and the several branches
ment.
The personal chaîne
uni as
It has
tax lixe.i a - a
It has, consequently, served
; ie of all parties
tne government,
than any other course which could h ive been
pursued. This, then, is an inappreciable bless
ing, for which we ought to be grateful We
may entertain a rational, a confident hope that
the nation will rally its whole strength round its
government, and that the government, in all
its departments, will possess an indissoluble
unity in the enaction and execution of its mea
sures.
Une '.
What these measures will he it may be pre
maure to decide, and useless to conjecture.—
The powers applicable to this case possessed bv
the Executive are very limited. The measures
taken by Congress remove every restriction
» bee intercourse with Britain, without vesting
the President with any authority to suspend it.
Slvoul. 1 , therefore, any immediate legal sus
pension he considered requisite, Congress must
he sp .eiuHy convened. Beside this step, there
are two others within the pa e of Executive
power, the recul of Mr. Pinkney, and the re
fusal to receive Mr. Jackson, the new minister.
The e.
we believe, are the only powers the
Pies lent possesses, and whether limy, or ei
ther of them, will he exercised time will dis
close.
I't *.!v? mean time the principal risk of our
m'.s has been already and irretrievably
i heii property to an immense amount
is either i,t British ports, or will soon be there,
ready to await the tender mercies of the tyrant
of the seas; to he sacrificed under the henrficent
order of council just issued, or under some
more favorable
Tnun
run.
pematinn of /« lue.
presume that so long as these dark, impene
trable clouds hang over tis, our merchants will
listen to the precepts of prudence, and cousu t
•ng their own interests, embargo their vessels,
mul thus save their country from any considera
ble loss that might otherwise arise from tiie
freedom of the intercourse permitted by the
laws. During this stagnation of commerce,
let internal enterprise and improvement move
on an elastic wing, and expose to foreign na
tions the inexhaustible mines of wealth and
We
hipp itess which their injustices teaches us to
open and wotk.
One circumstance, though somewhat out of
place, ought not to go unnoticed. Mr. Jack
son, the new minister, is the individual, who
( ronounccd the memorable prologue, that pre
ceded the ti
dy ol Copenhagen.
IVilmington, 'July 29 .
1809 .
of communications are received
0 :T A
which shall be duly attended to.
ober
lust, French paners have been rece ved
to the 11th of June, and London papers to the 12th,
Since
two days later than by the June packet. A pressure
of local matter prevents, "us from giving a summary
of their contents. They do not, however, contain
The French had rebuilt
touch matter of importance,
the bridges
the Danube, an
vere malting impor
rant preparations in that quarter. The duke of Mon
tebello (Marshal Lasnes) had died of his wounds.
We shall in future devote a portion of each paper
to marine intelligence. The entries and clearances of
this port will be regularly published ; together with
the names of all vessels boarded by the Revenue Cut
ter of this district. The following vessels have been
spoken since our last publication, via.
On the 25th, oil' Reedy Island, the sloop Favorite
of Philadelphia, David Willington, matter, from Sa
vannah,—26th, off Christiana creek, ship Jenny, of
Charleston, S: C. Rubin Jones, master, from New
Orieans, cargo cotton and tobacco.—27th, off do.
brig Nan in a of Philadelphia, Vincent Ducomb, jr.
| from Havanna, cargo, Sugars ftc. off do. brig I.otti.
• • c a ,, , .. , , ,, ,
tsiatia, of Plnladelpma, John M Far in, from St. Ja
. „ . ir , ,
go rfe Cuba ' cars °' "S*" : off do - schooner Advert
turer of Philadelphia, ] Grant, from St. Juans, For
t0 ' K,c0 —Gapt. Grant left the following vessels at
Porto Rico on the 12th inst brig Nancv Bingham,
I Philadelphia, uncertain when to sail i Schooner Jones,
Sutton, of Portsmouth, N. H. bound to leeward ,•
J brig George, Smith, of Philadelphia, uncertain ,
j schooner Ranger, Wilson, ot'uo. to sail in 3 days ;
schooner Hannah, do. sailed in co. ; schooner
riow „ of Wilmington, Del.
•a
FOR THE DELAWARE GAZETTE.
AN ENQUIRY
Into the political injustice of the leaders of the peo
ple of New-Castle, to the people of the county of
New-Castle.
No. II.
To the Citizens of New-Cu tie County.
That principle in ethics, to which an eniigut
cned world has long rince bowed its assent,_
that ind vidual anti [tut lie good are the s,
—ap
plies with more aptitude to a republican govern
ment than to any other. Whatever politician a-ts
• o ttraty to this axiom, is a traitor to the public,
,nd deserves more the reprobation of an indig
nant people than an open, an avowed enemy to
nis t
mry.
Whether the New-Castle leaders have studied
die interest of the fexv or tiie Many, in their late
numerous innovations, shall be the subject of this
number.
It requites nn pains to prove, to a we!! inform
ed community, that the agricultural interests of
the t United S ates are paramount to all others.
Boson and experience both demonstrate that
nothing so effectually promotes a spirit of agri
t ultttre a« the neighbourhood of a markt t town ;
and in proportion as the town is large, and the
Having
: will, with that calmness
nr which is due to so interesting a sub
naikei good, rh it spirit is increased,
premised these facts,
acd caod
ycr, enquire—
1 st. Wliat are the pretensions of the borough
of Wilmington to he the emporium of the state
of Delaware ? anti,
2dly. What ha,s been the uniform tenor of the
behaviour of the people of the town of New-Cas
tle towards that borough, and to the interest of
the county in respect to it ?
Geographers have stated that no town in the
United Slates, of the same size, exports to so
great an amount as that of Wilmington. If a
healthy situation, and the best on the Atlantic
for the manufacture of grain—a population more
than ten times greater titan any other in the state,
and of a magnitude in proportion, with an excel
lent harbour for verse)*, constitute a sufficiency
of advantages to recommend the promotion of
the borough of Wilmington to the particular at
tention of the people of this stite, she possesses
them, with many more which have not been here
enumerated. Nothing can more plainly shew
the flourishing prosperity of the town of Wil
mington, and constqucntiy the ptopriety of ma
king it the virtual capital of the state, than the
rapidity with which it has arisen to its present
prosperity. The first houses in this town were
began in the year 1 / 37» and, according to the
third edition oT l)r. Morse's Geography, pub
lished in 1802, then possessed 500 houses and
3000 inhabitants ; while the town of New-Cas
tle, which was founded more than 100 years
sooner, (in the year 1627) and is the oldest set
tlement on the Delaware, possessed, according
to tiie same author, at the same time, only 60
houses, and of course about 360 inhabitants.
Notwithstanding the above recited advantages
of the borough of Wilmington, it is a fact, which
perhaps will not gain credit fifty years hence,
that the leaders of the town of New-Castle have
not only had the presumptuous vanity to aspire
to a cmnpetitorship, hut, by endeavoring to effect
their object, have created a spirit of discord in
the county, and thereby given a deadly blow to
the democratic interest of the state. The people
of Wilmington had the power of making their
town regulations, through the medium of
proper oflicer.s, by authority of a charter from the
cro'wn of Great Britain, yet, notwithstanding the
notoriety of this lact, die people of the town of
New-Castle, a few years ago, had the officious
insolence to send a committee gravely to consult
with the prop'e of Wilmington, whether certain
spring water should he brought into the streets
for the use of the town, or suffered to pursue its
natural course.
The New-Castle people have reason to reflect
with shame and contrition on their bchavious
in the year 1 80—, when the subject of a bridge
over Christiana creek opposite W ilmmgton ,was
under consideration. The cnntemp'a ed bridge,
while it promised, and has since realised, the
greatest advantages to the borough of Wilming
ton, could not in any way affect the interests ol
the town of New-Castle ; yet the opposition
made by the political leaders of that town or.t
own
raged every principle of political justice, com
mun sense and common honesty, 'The villages
of Newport, Stanton and Chtistiana had some
shadow of interest in opposing the bridge, as it
was expected to have made an impediment to the
navigation ol the Christiana. The jealousy of
the people ot New-Castle induced them to in
flame the mmds of the inhabitants of these villa
ges to the highest pitch. They were told that if
the bii !ge was erected the carrying trtde to Phi
ladelphia would be at an end. ' Many of the
landholders near these villages were made to be
lieve that they would be as far from a market
tor their grain as if no tide water was near them
— hat the value of real property w ould decrease
one half. Public meetings were held and inflam
atory handbills were circulated,to firs the minds
oi the people-—so far they effected their ob
ject, and tiie lailure of the democratic party in
in the succeeding state election
quence. Jn the contention about the bridge
lue villages above mentioned, and the in
terests attached to them, became connected with
the people of New-Castle in opposition, and
notwithstanding the promises that were made to
<1 by each other to the last, after leaving
sure unaffected which envy or jealousy could
;ert....alter saying every tning in opposition
which folly and falsehood could dictate....after
creating the most ruinous discord and animosity
in the county, and trampling the interests of the
democratic party under loot, the New-('asi]e I
tiers made secret offers to withdraw their opposi
tion to tiie bridge, provided certain piivileges
would Ire allowed them, and to ieavc.be villages
and their interests to stand by themselves. It was
ough to blow tiie county into a [1 ime, and
inflict a deep wound into tiie vitals of a party,
which after actual victory was still in the high
road of further prosperity, but to basely desert
their confederates in opposition.
W hen good sense and good policy prevailed
ov«r the mischievous machinations of jealousy
and ignorance, the bridge was er e'er /:—its im
pediments to the nav gation were found to be tri
fling, and all men were convinced of its public
utility ; the New-Castle leaflets were left to suf
fer the contempt of their betrayed confederates,
and, like debauched gamesters, already ruined at
play, instead of turning their attention to indus
ny and economy, to plunge madly into new ex
cesses, to divert the attention of the public from
their past enorinit
of lost confidence.
s the con se
HU
no
mea
•I
not e
and drown the recollection
MARCUS.
FOR THE DELAWARE GAZETTE.
Tu the Democratic Citizens of New-Castle
County.
Number 2.
It has often been said, and as often been laugh
ed at for its absurdity, 1 Hat there exists a necessa
ry connection between any two hl.-as, which in
genuity can bring together. 1 wi-b 1 understood
more of this doctrine of comirction, that 1 might
more successfully developc the intactible chain,
which linked the ideas, of moving the Court
Mouse, and the New-Castle and French-Town
turnpike road. Let ns see how it stands by way
of proposition—" There is a road proposed from
New-Castle to Freni h-Town,-therefore the
Court House ought to be moved !" which was
to be demonstrated. Most admirable logick !
the proposition only wants form and substance,
to make the conclusion quite evident ! I ran
think of but one solution to save tiie credit of
these gentlemen; they intend, literally, to move
the Court House :—the circuity ant! bad state of
the present road is the most serious obstacle to
this project: the turnpike toad proposed cuts up
this difficulty by the toots.* Surely this road
will " facilitate the communication," with the
Red Lion, as well as French-Town. But how
do the illuminati of Christren propose to convey
the unwieldy mass ol brick and mortar thence
to tiie site they have fixed upon ? or how is it to
mount the hills to Staunton ? Hoc opus, hie la
bor est ! Our Wilmington friend« have an an
swer in readiness for this anticipated difficulty—
they order these things admirably in Wilming
ton ! It being once settled by the wise men of
Red-Lion, of Staunton, and Christeen, the inha
bitants of the borough will kindly save them all
the trouble and expence, and generously ask no
thing in return hut the—benefit ! They will of
fer their Town-Hall—an act of the General As
sembly, wilhout aid of magick, will ea-ily change
its name—and those that set the stone roiling
will wonder at their infatuated folly in supposing
they could stou it. No one doubts lhat, in such
an .event, the Town-Hail will receive its original
destination—it stands an eternal memento, of the
•dans and intentions of its founders—and happi
ly form« a mean of defeating the very design it
was built to effect. It was built for a Court
House fellow citizens—and thither if moved at
all, the seat of Justice will be moved, to render
the situative more central l It was built for a
court house, fellow citizens—tho' the child was
bastardized at its birth, and disowned at its bap
tism, to collect 1 the iniquity of its father !
In eve>y omvtion ofgenetal interest next to
an inquiry into the merit of the measure itself,
ght to ask vho are the men with whom it
originated and xvhat are. these motives —a correct
conclusion can only be firmed by giving both
measurer and men a proper weight in the scale
of our judgment. I propose to direct your at
tention' to these enquiries—I address myself to
you as impartial and iffnhiassed, as alive only to
the general and pei'inarrent interest of our com
, and such 1 believe to he the charac
ou
mon cause
It is proposed to the young Lawyers who are
the c.hristeen Stc. to amuse
•h'h the enquiry, how
se as publick property, will be
subject to toll !—Nide Bac» ab. tet. toll. &c,
about to take offices i
the interior.
themselves
•t H
tar the C
ter of the great body of flic democratic interest n;
this county Who must ultimately decide the ques
tion of removal.
I-et us then enquire what are the disadvantages
of the present scat of Justice, what its advanta
ges, and w hat the benefits proposed by a remo
val.—I will not forget the men who have ori
ginated this business, nor shall the flimsey veil
of genera! good prevent me from exposing in
their naked deformity the motives which they
have so assiduously Looted to conceal.
It is far, very far from being evident, that the
proximity of the eouit house is ar.y advantage
except to two very small, however important,
classes of our citizens—the Lawyers and Inn
keepers !—A doubt cannot exist hut that ts vi
cinity is a source of additional litigiousness—
that spirit which often hurries a man unnesces
sarily to law, has time to subside in the moments
devoted to a contemplation of a ride to New
Castle.—It was well ob-erved, not long since,
in reference to this subject, by a very respec
table inhabitant of Appoquinimink hundred, a
hundred whose situation is, in tins respect so
sympathetically deplored, that so far from
veting ihe court house he was very sorry when an
additional magistrate was appointed in hi* b
died, for he found it increased greatly disputes
in the neighborhood. This the Lawyers
tell you is because the people do not know how
se a good thing. Be it so, such is the fact—
the inference is plain.
< <
n
ili
to
(To bt Continued.)
FGR THE GAZETTE*
A HINT TO MARCUS.
Mr. Editor,
In your paper of the 26th inst. T ob
served a piece under the signature of Mar
cus, portentous of conflicting storms. The
paragraphist appears to be a member of that
hord, who look on New Castle and its citi
zens with an eye beaming with a malignant
and jealous enmity. Actuated bv this spi
rit, he comes forward with declamatory in
vective, promising the public, not an inves
tigation of facts that will reform the politics
of the state, but a reiteration of old tales, ge
nial to the interests of Federalism, alias
Toryism, that will renew the schisms
scarcely healed up. Such lucubratory ex
ercises will to every reflective mind be
—— Confirmation,
Strong as proof frsm Holy Writ."
that the spn it of '76 does not flourish in his
b s >m with its pristine purity. If one single
spark remains, let it, combined with my en
treaty, induce him to lay aside his pen,
cease in the commencement of his career to
disturb tepublicans with baneful discord,
nor give to the vigilant emissaries of Fede
ralism an opportunity to display their disu
niting talents. If the itching passion for
literary fame protnps the sell-called Mar
cus to exhibit himself to the public, permit
me to inform him that on the promised sub
ject the harvest of laurels has been already
reaped by an honorable Senator,,—the glean
ings left are extremely worthless: nor has
his appearance been sufficiently preposses
sing to excite a single wish in the public
mind to see him again upon the stage.
A DEMOCRAT.
FOR THE GAZETTE.
A Word to the Wise is sufficient.
'Tis pleasing to go to meeting, let folks say
vvhat they will to the contrary. Ih.w agreeably
can a young gentleman trass th': moments of di
vine service with a—n-gar ! Who could help be
ing gratified, on Sunday afternoon last, at a nu
merous meeting in Wilmington, with the sight
of twelve or twenty young gentlemen, engaged
round the house among old, middled aged, and
voting men, women and children, whiffing away
in clouds of snkoke, all remembrance of former
sorrow ?
' Tis notorious! and lamentable that there is an
abundat.ee of mjschief done in the woiM, but
how condescending and humane must those gen
try be to take upon themselves the punishment
of " SMOKING FOR IÏ !"
I have often beto in Wilmington before, and
often in Philadelphia, therefore can with plea
sure say, I believelthe practice to be confined to
ortly few. The ggntecl class of young gentle
men, if 1 mistake nqt, have degrees of criminality
obseived in smoking.
Poo. Case .—To jsmoke in the streets is bad.
Comparative .—To smoke in the company of
ladies, See., is worsIb.
Su/ie/lative. —To, smoke in places of divinfe
worship is WORST.
9 L
s
//f
J_ n
A SMOKER.
jc.sgii.aa>:!!:> - > «grsraw
War Department, July 8, I8O9.
NOTICE is HEBE.BY GIVEN:
HAT separate proposals will be received at
the Office of the Secretary for the Depart,
ment of War, until 12 o'clock, at noon of Wed
nesday the 25ib of October next, for the supply
of all rations that may be required for the 11
the United Stales, from the 1st day of June 1 810
inclusive, to the 1st day of June 1811, within
the states, territoiies arid districts following, viz,
1st. At Niagara, Detroit, Michilimackinac,
Fort Wayne, Chtkago and in their immediate
vicinities, and at any place or places, where
troops are or may be stationed, marched, or re
cruited, within the territory of Michigan.
2nd. At any place or places where #. oops are
T
se of