WM. LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR.
VOL XX. NO. 25.
ft cfu9c of (Oppression.
From the Boston Christian (Episcopal) Witness and
Advocate, edited by Rev. George M. Randall.
FANATICISM.
Among the Associations which have figured con
spicuously during the last week of anniversaries,
was that of a set of men and women who have gone
on, from one degree of high-pressure excitement to
another, until they have finally become avowed infi
dels, and are now polluting the air of heaven, which
God suffers them to breathe, with the most shock
ing and blood-chilling profanity. These people be
gan their career, a few years ago, with a determin
ed, and, we have no doubt, with an honest opposition
to the institution of slavery ; with a sincere and zeal
ous desire and design to wage a warfare against it
which should never cease, until every black bondman
in the country should be emancipated from the servi
tude in which he was held. Very soon their zeal rose
to a degree which blinded them to all consequen
ces of any action, on their part, which they consci
entiously regarded as right in itself. It was not long
before they deemed it both right and expedient to de
nounce, in terms and tones not easily misunderstood,
all who presumed to differ from them, either as to
the object of their efforts, or the means of promoting
it
In this feverish state of feeling, it did not require
either a long or a laborious process to exalt measures
into principles. And soon their batteries, which, by
this time, were charged with wormwood and gall,
were turned as fiercely upon those who differed from
them, respecting the wisdom and propriety of their
course, as they had been against the people who held
in bondage their fellow-men. The Colonization So
ciety, having for its aim the promotion of the interest
of the colored portion of our population, but choos
ing to accomplish its philanthropic purpose in anoth
er way, came in for a large share of the violent
vituperation of these new-born reformers. The fires
of fanaticism had now been kindled, and fuel was too
plenty and too cheap to allow the flame to flag;—it
waxed ‘ hotter and hotter,’ and, ere long, all persons,
colonization people or not, were in like manner de
neunced, who did not subscribe either to their creed
or to their course. Very soon the Church, which
admitted slaveholders to its communion, was held up
and denounced as a sink of iniquity. The ministry
who admitted such into the fold of Christ’s Church
were attacked with a savage ferocity, which de
manded all that Billingsgate had to give, in order
to furnish a medium for their fiery or false denuncia
tion. Very soon, the Church, every where, and the
ministry, every where, were in like manner, and in
like terms, charged with the basest criminality.
Men who never owned a slave, and who never saw
a slava,in their life, were represented as being but
little, if any, less culpable than slave owners them
selves. The ministry were represented as among
the worst members of society ; there was scarcely a
crime in the black catalogue of human guilt which
was not laid to their charge. Clergymen who never
sustained this ‘ domestic institution,’ nor sympathized
with those who did, but who quietly and sincerely
preached the Gospel in that part of God’s vineyard
where it pleased the great head of the Church to
place them, were, by these fanatics, held up as par
ticipating in all the guilt of the injustice, violence,
cruelty and licentiousness which they averred grew
out of this institution. The fire was too hot not
not very soon to lick up all the wood, hay, and
stubble, which it found blowing about in the non
slaveholding part of Christendom. But it must have
more food, or it would surely die out, and that, too,
without much ceremony. They now pounced upon
human government in general, and the government
of the United States in particular. They declared
that our Constitution was of no binding force, and
was not entitled to the allegiahce of the citizens of
this country, and that no man was bound to obey the
laws of the land. They seemed to regard it as a
virtue to resist ‘ the powers that be,’ and a duty to
instruct others to treat the laws of the country, enact
ed under the Constitution, as of no binding force.
But it required no extraordinary degree of sagaci
ty to see that a new subject must be found for that
morbid appetite which ever increases by that on
which it feeds. Laws and constitutions were too dry
to last long. This year the community were shock
ed by the fact that these persons, having gone, in
respect to men and human institutions, as far as they
could go, turned the current of their venom upon
the Bihle and its divine author. It was worthy of
notice, that comparatively little was said against
slaveholders—scarcely any thing about the Coloni
zation Society—-and the ministry escaped with but
few stripes. Their violence was chiefly directed
against the Bible and the Deity.
VVe will not pollute our columns with quotations
from the Heaven-daring blasphemy which they un
blushingly uttered on the occasion of their-late anni
versary. It is among the saddest signs of the times,
that we have in our midst men of some influence,
because some of them are men of education and re
spectable talents, who are employing their time and
their abilities in casting doubt and contempt upon
the word of God, and thus doing all in their power
to destroy, in the minds of both old and young, that
reverence for God and the inspired word of His truth,
which constitutes the basis of all religion, all morali
ty, and all good order and good government; —a rev
erence, without which there can be no such thing as
stable and enlightened liberty, or successful and ele
vating progress of society.
VVe trust that these men who are now floundering
in the bogs of undisguised infidelity, will soon reach
the last act in the wild and reckless course which
they have run. However this may be, we are quite
sure that the end of the mischief they have done is
not yet. VVe do not refer to their influence as to
the ultimate abolition of slavery ; Qn that matter, we
do not choose to express our opinion, as we do not
intend to discuss the subject of slavery in our col
umns. But these men, and their discussions, and
their conduct, have had their influence on the pub
lic mind where they have lived and labored. It is
quite impossible that it should be otherwise. It re
quires but a very small quantity of matter in a state
of decomposition to fill the atmosphere with its poi
sonous effluvia.
They set out with bringing laws and constitutions
to submit to a power in themselves, which they de
clared to be above all law and all constitutions, and
they end with demanding that if the Bible or its au
thor requires any thing of them which they do not
see to be right, or tolerates what their own human
nature pronounces to be wrong, then the Bible and
its author are not to be listened to or obeyed ; and
thus, beginning by lifting themselves above human
laws and human constitutions, they end with exalt
ing themselves above Holy Scripture and God him
self.
It becomes all good citizens and good men to
pause, and calmly consider whether or not they have
not been, in some measure, influenced in their views
by the bold and radical speech and conduct of these
fanatical men. If we allow them or any body else
to persuade us that we are not to hold most religious
ly to all compacts into which we have entered, and
that we may, under any circumstances, repudiate one
^W/W -wh a ■
Waaaaari ^Ws6fe Sr*-
A. WH Jwm :' ^Ekhik.
4w 13 /wM
I I^/ G IK Bess fw *-«■ ®ls® 'w^iis*®'Kas 1 U i?- Viz
part of an obligation, whenever it may suit our taste,
or our wishes, or our interest, and that we have a
power, by some transcendental operation, to lift
ourselves above all law and all constitutions, when
ever and wherever we please, and that all obligation
to obey is resolvable into our own will or caprice,
then we may be assured that we have gone very far
towards that precipice, over which multitudes, who
are borne upon the terrible tide of fanaticism, are
now plunged into the gulf of infidelity.
From the Boston Universalist Trumpet.
THE ABOLITION PARTY.
We desire to have it understood, that we have no
sympathy with the abolition party, so-called, —that is,
the Garrison party, embracing such men as 11. C.
Wright, Parker Pillsbury, S. S. Foster and his wife.
In our judgment, these men are doing great detri
ment to the anti-slavery cause ; they retard its move
ments ; they raise up a thousand prejudices against it
in the hearts of otherwise good men. These men at
tack the church, the ministry, the Sabbath, the coun
try ; in fact, it seems to us if their views were to be
carried out, we should have utter anarchy. We do
not say they are not honest. In that respect we will
not be their judges. But we do say, that we differ
from them so entirely in the matters we have named,
that we should almost be guilty of self-misrepresent
ation were we not to declare, when we speak on the
subject of reform, that we have no sympathy with
the spirit of these men, by which they are led to de
nounce the Sabbath, the Bible, and the Church.
No man has a right to rebuke sin merely according
to his own whim. 1 Reprove, rebuke, exhort, with
all long-suffering and doctrine,’ or precept , for such is
the significance of doctrine here. Rebuke men ac
cording to the rules of the gospel. Here, then, we
have both the spirit and the method in which it
should be done. O how little of this conformity to
the gospel, have we seen in some of the anti-slavery
meetings in this city, carried on by the old abolition
party ! The cause is too good a one to be so much
abused as it has been. It is now far behind where it
would have been, if its advocates had always been
wise and prudent. Let us zealously endeavor so to
labor in the cause of reform, whether we succeed or
not in reforming others, we shall not give the world
good reason to believe that, more than all the rest of
the world, we need to be reformed ourselves.
From the Newburyport Herald.
ANTI-SLAVERY...OLD SOCIETY-MEET
INGS.
Were it not for the coarse and pitiful vein of
blasphemy which runs through them, the meetings
of the Anti-Slavery Society, Old Organization,
would afford the rarest amusement which annually
visits the community. The manifest efforts which
the speakers make to utter the most sarcastic, the
most violent and the most ludicrous exclamations, of
which the English language is susceptible, are both
amusing and instructive, and to a lover of fun far
exceed any or all of the exhibitions of the circus
clowns in the country.
For us, the perusal of the reports of the speeches
and resolutions of these meetings affords a great
deal of amusement, although it is occasionally ting
ed with sadness, as we cannot suppress an emotion
of pity, when we see the ebullitions of childish rage
and imbecility, aimed not at their fellow-men, but at
the Creator of the world and the Supreme Ruler of
the universe.
There is one feature of these meetings ,which af
fords an illustration of the old truism that men are but
children of a larger growth, and that is, the manner
in which they quarrel with each other, when any
brother ventures to dissent in the least from any
standard creed of this order of Illuminati. They
pounce upon one another, for the slightest difference
of opinion, with the same ferocity with which they
assail those whom they most hate. If it should by
any chance happen, (which, however, is impossible,)
that such men could in any manner influence or con
trol the destinies of the country, and, for even a
brief space, become the rulers of the sty, which
they seem to consider their country to be, with
none to put a ring in their nose, or throw a sop to
their unnatural cravings, they would speedily over
turn the foundations of their own edifice, and devour
the fruit of their own bodies.
We have perused all the reports of these meetings,
and they are all worth perusal, for in such a vast
series of the climaxes of absurdity and invective,
some incidents and utterances are found in each
report, which, in the wild confusion, escaped others.
History records that a certain king was wont to
exhibit drunkenness to his children, in order to de
ter them from intoxication. If such lessons be of
any value to deter the inexperienced and unfolding
mind from crime and disgrace, we can imagine no
better way, if people wish to preserve their children
from following in the footsteps of these wild fanatics,
than to let them read the speeches and resolutions of
their meetings.
At the meetings the present season, the orators
have increased in their manifestations of hostility to
the Bible, and particularly to the Old Testament.
There is a manifest advance in the tone of disre
gard and contempt in which they regard the Bible,
or parts of it, over the demonstrations of former
years.
From the Cincinnati Gazette.
NEW FEATURE OF ABOLITIONISM.
We have given brief extracts from the reported
proceedings of the ‘ New England Anti-Slavery
Convention,’ wherein the Bible, the churches, min
isters of the gospel, Christianity, and great and good
men, were assailed with impious execrations by Ab
by Kelley, Wendell Phillips, Garrison, Wright, Fos
ter, nnd their fanatical associates. At the close of
the riotous meeting, their universal philanthropy
took a ‘ new shute’—a new feature disclosed itself
in their new abolitio’n movement. They advocated
the entire abolition of all sorts of punishment for
crime.
Garrison ‘demanded the abolition of the gal
lows, and the right to legislate to destroy vitality’—
Ahby contended that ‘it is the Christian duty of the
community to pardon Prof. Webster on the confes
sion of his crime’—the Rev. Mr. Dall ‘ was for par-'
doning all criminals at once, in pursuance of the
Christian precept, “ love your enemies’”— Wendell
Phillips ‘ was for the entire abolition of all sorts of
punishment for any sort of crime.’ He maintained
that the ‘ old principle of punishment had been tried,
and had failed of its object, in preventing crime.
Policy demanded the experiment of a new theory of
treatment to the criminal—we should aim to reform
the nature of the culprit’—and so on to the end of
the chapter.
[Correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette.]
Boston, May 80, 1850.
Messrs. Editors: This is Anniversary week in
Boston, and, as usual, it has been attended by a great
deal of storm outside, and in some cases in the inte
| rior of the places of meeting. Especially has this
OUR COUNTRY IS THE WORLD— OUR COUNTRYMEN ARE ALL MANKIND.
BOSTON, MASS., FRIDAY, JUNE 21, 1850.
been the case with the Garrison clique of anti-sla
very men. A regret to say that these assemblages
have not been conducted with any degree of propri
ety. Speakers have been suffered to assail the
Christian religion, and utter many sayings disgrace
ful to the Bible. The abuse of Messrs. Webster,
Clay and Winthrop might be allowable in all its co
piousness, for all polititions are public targets; but
why endeavor to make atheism necessary to anti
slavery ?
Selections.
From the Practical Christian.
THE BOSTON ANNIVERSARIES.
VVe saw most of the New England Anti-Slavery
Convention, which was constantly thronged by ea
ger multitudes who were addressed by able, eloquent,
soul-stirring speakers. The agitation of the public
mind from centre to circumference throughout our
country calls out friend and foe, and renders the An
ti-Slavery forum more than ever a burning focus of
light and heat. Indifferentists are aroused, neutrals
are forced to take sides, friends are animated with un
wonted zeal, and enemies are stimulated to do their
worst. The late riotous proceedings in New York
have extended their contagion to Boston, where
nothing but impunity was wanting to bring forth a
like shameless exhibition of the mobocracy.
The Boston Herald, like its cousin, the New York
Herald, did what it dared to stir up the moral dregs
to mischief. These delectable organs of Belialism
had their hirelings on the platform, scribbling scur
rility by the column. It was a spectacle worth ad-,
miring to see with what cool and consummate impu
dence these half-shaven squibslers sat there, com
pounding slops of misrepresentation, caricature and
falsehood for the gullets that revel at their masters’
troughs. They looked as cosey and self-possessed
as if engaged in some honest and decent employment
instead of this low, mercenary blackguardism. The
New York Herald’s hireling actually avowed, in a
short speech, that he was not ashamed of his agency.
Quite likely he was not Shame implies some re
mains, at least, of self-respect, which we are slow to
believe a fellow can feel who sells himself to such
masters. It was remarkable what an affinity existed
between the rowdies sprinkled over the house and
these mustacked b’hoys. They instinctively sympa
thized with and. understood each other. They de
lighted only in what was extravagant, pepperish or
absurd, and if they lacked that ready cooked to their
taste, they knew how to concoct enough of it by fic
tion and caricature. As to what was serious, ration
al, candid and impressive to honest minds, it was
perfectly irksome to them. They were not there to
enjoy, or minister to the nobler sentiments or qualities
of humanity. They were only there to pick up or to
manufacture offal and carrion for the herd to which
they cater.
We wished, as we saw how things were going on,
that all the clapping, thumping and racket of the the
atre, which has found its way into our philanthropic
meetings, could be sent back to the pit whence it
came, together with all the zigzag, slip-slap, whick
whack phrases, squibs nnd witticisms which are adap
ted to excite such a racket, and that the friends of
humanity, with a deep and reverent earnestness,
might appeal solely to the understandings, con
sciences and hearts of honest, sober, well-disposed
common people. These carrion buzzards that now
infest our platform and assemblies would then disap
pear ; and if mobocracy should be let loose against
us, as even then it might be sometimes, its recoil
upon itself would be instantaneously fatal to all its
instigators. We should then know a rowdy or a mob
ocrat at a single glance. We should then possess a
holy covering of purely religious and philanthropic
dignity, which would render police officers unneces
sary, or, if Belial and Bedlam should break forth
upon us, and police officers should come to take them
into custody, they could readily distinguish them
when making an uproar of pretended applause.
We observed that these theatrical customs and
tricks afforded a convenient introduction to the row
dyism, which, in spite of the city authorities, all but
broke up the Faneuil Hall meeting on Thursday ev
ening. It was evident that the more vulgar of the
mob were under the generalship of their more re
fined, and that their policy was to bother and even to
applaud our meetings to death—taking due care not
to commit any indictable breach of the public peace.
In this game, the upper and lower crust of our re
nowned Athens played successfully together at the
Faneuil Hall meeting. That densely packed, im
mense concourse of people was filled with tumult and
confusion by a few hundred villains, many of them
shamelessly respectable, summoned out by proclama
tion of the Boston Herald, and doubtless counte
nanced by certain so-called ‘ retainers.’ And did not
these same tricks, borrowed from the pits and galle
ries of theatres, subserve their mischievous purposes
nicely! We toish, but we can hardly Iwpe, that our
declaratively moral power anti-slavery meetings
might be placed under the protectiou of Christian
reverence, calmness and dignity, so thatall theatrical
noise should be as much out of order as in the best
conducted religious assembly.
»But,’ says one, ‘ this would not do; our meetings
would then become intolerably dull and thin.’ We
do not believe it. Doubtless they would become dull
to rowdyists and blackguards. Doubtless they would
be thinned of groundlings and scorners. But is it
certain that the solid, reverent and conscientious lov
ers of God and humanity would not fill their places ?
There is talent, conscience, moral earnestness and
Christian eloquence enough on and around the anti
slavery platform to inspire a sublime and unfaltering
interest in our assemblies. Who are to be relied upon
to consummate this great humane and philanthropic
revolution of public sentiment, which is to give three
millions of slaves their freedom ? Who else but men
and women of real moral power ? People may laugh
and giggle, and jest, and amuse themselves with tom
foolery ?f they will, but this unclean and cruel devil
of slavery is not to be cast out by such means. It is
a kind of devil that goetli not out, except by fasting
and prayer; which presupposes moral dignity and
intensely earnest effort; and does not comport with
hollow-hearted theatrical uproar.
But the anti-slavery reform will take its own course,
and whether directly by the right path, or round
and round through the wilderness, it will certainly
reach the goal in triumph. Individuals, classes and
parties, honestly seeking the abolition of slavery,
though sometimes working incongruously with re
spect to each other’s convictions and taste, can
scarcely work against the general cause itself. Chat
tel slavery is so huge and gross an outrage against
all that is good in the universe, that the best planned
schemes of its supporters cannot save it, nor the
worst errors of its opponents greatly retard its over
throw. It is doomed. Its days are rapidly number
ing their completion.
The monster catches a staggering blow,
Alike from friend and deadly foe,
As growling and weltering he reels towards the gate
Of eternal perdition, his fate.
gHje $4 ft e t <ito r.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE NEW ENGLAND
ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
[phonographic report by dr. stone.]
SPEECH OF PARKER PILLSBURY.
I do not know that I can make myself heard, though
I always wish to contribute my morsel to the interest
of the meetings when I can. A subject is now up,
in which I feel a great interest. But before I go
any further, I wish to say that my brother Wright
said he addressed himself to your understanding; but
ho did not mean to that on which you stand. [Laughter.]
He addressed himself to that which is within you, if
there is any thing in you which could be alluded to
in a figure as your ‘ understanding.’ [Hisses.]
If our doctrines are not palatable to you, you
must not be responsible for them. But you mistake
our character altogether, if you think we are to be
convinced by that kind of logic to which you have
treated us. We shall accept it, if it is the best argu
ment you can give; but you must excuse us if we
will not be convinced by it. If you will choose your
man or men to advocate your side, you will not find
us wanting in courtesy. We are glad of any kind of
defence that may be called reasonable or rational,
however it may fail to convince us.
About the Bible, why is it that we are so pressed to
know what our individual opinions are ? Have we
not told you, over and over again, that if the Bible
does sanction slavery, we do not believe in the Bible ?
And if you convince us that the Bible sanctions sla
very, the question is answered, and just as you seem
disposed to have it answered. For that generation
which tried once to entangle another in his talk seems
not to have died without numerous descendants.
Now, prove to us that the Bible sanctions slavery, and
you have convicted us of infidelity. Why attempt to
do indirectly and cunningly,that which you yourselves
have not the manliness fairly to undertake ? When
you or Professor Stuart, or when you and Professor
Stuart, [laughter,] shall have convinced us that the
Bible sanctions slavery, you will find us repudi
ating the Bible fast enough. I will go home and
make a bonfire of all I have, (and they are many,)
except one, which I will keep as a curiosity, and put
Id, when they become scarce, in the museum. When
you convince us that the Bible upholds American sla
very, I shall revere it no more than I do the evangel
ical thumbscrews or Bible bloodhounds and bowie
knives of this most ‘ patriarchal institution.’ Just
prove to me that the book sanctions or sanctifies sla
very, and I will keep and embalm one copy, as the
wonder of wonders in this most wonderful age.
What others I have shall bo entombed in a sepulchre
of fire.
But I was about to allude to one fact that seems to
me of some consequence in this connection; and that
is, that the verdict of almost all classes of people, at
this time, seems to be wholly in favor of the Bible ;
and if I were heart and soul on that side, I think I
would not be greatly alarmed. Have you not Prof.
Stuart and the whole Evangelical Church ? And have
you not Daniel Webster and the whole political
church, from Daniel Webster upward r —for God for
bid that there should be any doumward from Daniel
Webster now! [Cheers and hisses.]
I perceive that some of our friends on the border
of the house have an impediment in their speech.
[Laughter.] It is rather a calamity, my friends, but
nobody sympathises with you more sincerely than I
do. [Renewed laughter.] I was spewing in refer
ence to the Bible when you hissed. Rome, if his
tory tells true, was once saved by the hissing of geese.
I hope the Bible won’t be driven to such a stern ne
cessity as to require a similar salvation. [Applause
and hisses.] But why cannot we dispense with that
dialect ? It does not belong to this stage of human
advancement.
I remember that Professor Agassiz, in the Lowell
Institute, told us that on the first appearance of ani
mal existence, it was proved that the first being went
on its belly and ate dust, and that the first utterance
was a hiss. Now, I should be sorry if any of that
kind of existences, at this late day, had crept in
among us ; for they certainly do themselves no honor,
and would probably go someways from satisfying us
of the necessity of our going down to their unfortunate
level. [Laughter.] But if you will be calm and man
ly, and speak with tongues, I think you will find that
the abolitionists not only have cars, but ears to hear;
a very important distinction, which the Son of God
once made. He only said, ‘He that hath ears to hear,
let him hear;’ and the remark might have alluded on
ly to a very small portion of his audience. [Renewed
mirth.] H you will speak, you will have a kindly
treatment and hearing. And cannot you meet men
and women who are disposed to meet you as men ?
I will not say as women, because there arc no women
in that unfortunate fringe which is drawn or coiled
around our meeting. [Good !]
I was speaking of the safety and security of the
Bible. From Prof. Stuart, from Andover, and from
every theological seminary in the land, has there not
gone forth a torrent of evidence in its behalf ? Have
not those seminaries sent forth their thousands of
messengers in its favor ? and did not the devout and
divine Capt. Rynders and his pious band also join
their voices, like trumpets, to snatch the Bible from
threatened danger, and plant it high in the affec
tions of the world, as they say it is already in the af
fections of Him whom they claim as its Author r
But another thought. AYe had a mob, the other
day, in New York, in defence of the Bible and the
Church, among other things. The city authorities,
the police, the press, were all more or less implicated
in it. How happened it, that of all the meetings
here, the anti-slavery meeting was singled out, mob
bed, broken up, and that slaveholders were so rejoiced
at this short triumphing of the wicked ? And how
comes it that we arc again assailed here on this anni
versary week in Boston—that the anti-slavery move
ment seems to be the movement round which gath
ers all those battalions of opposition combined as a
kind of Holy Alliance in defence of the Bible and
the Church ?
The other day, in New York, there came up from
the South and from the North, from the East and
from the West, gathering themselves together, almost
the entire clergy of the land —surely a large repre
sentation of them—until the smoke of their divinity
went up in the face of Heaven like the smoke of a
furnace. There was the American Bible Society,
represented by Doctors of Divinity and Doctors of
Law. There was the American Tract Society, and I
do not know what number of American Missionary
Societies ; the American Education Society, and the
American Colonization Society—of whom Slavery
says, when comparing it with these others, ‘ Many
daughters have done virtuously for me, but thou ex
cellest them all.’ [Much laughter.] They were all
gathered there. Slavery came up and joined its voice,
and lent its influence, and thus the whole heaven
seemed overcast with those great rolling black clouds
of divinity, and of so-called philanthropy and Chris
tian benevolence. And yet they were all perfectly
safe. There was no Capt. Rynders to disturb any of
these. The city authorities did not voluntarily set
the mob upon them. Slavery had not looked terrified
in anticipation of their gathering—had not looked for
ward to it as to a time of tribulation. And when the
Slave Power of the country saw this mighty force,
gathered and leaning up like a thunder-storm against
the Northern sky, it did not tremble, it did not
shrink; for it was there with its representatives.
And neither you nor I can tell how many negroes the
week before had been sold, that their pious masters
might have the wherewithal to replenish the treasury
of the Lord on that, to them, joyous occasion. No,
Slavery did not tremble. It looked on calm and se
rene. Nay, more ! It rejoiced ; it thanked God and
took courage, and made Bennett’s Herald and the N.
Y. Globe its organs in giving utterance to its notes of
thanksgiving.
Let me ask some of this audience who have man
ifested displeasure, how came it that slavery exhibited
no alarm and terror at all this array of so-called
Christian benevolence ? Was it not because it was
well aware that it had a magic wand, with which it
needed only to touch that cloud of divinity, and it
could conduct every bolt harmless to its feet ?
But there was some cause of terror there. In the
midst of all that blackness and darkness, there was
some cause of terror. We did behold the sea and
waves rolling. But why was it? For this reason :
that in the midst of all that aggregation of religious
and philanthropic power twinkling down from among
all those clouds and darkness, there shone one glim
mering star, one brilliant ray of light, as the star of
Bethlehem. It was the star of dread to the slavehold
er, but the star of promise to the slave. It was to the
tyrant more like that star of which you read in apoc
alyptic vision, whose name was Wormwood. It was
this star which, casting its piercing ray through that
cloud and that darkness, sent dismay and terror
through the ranks of the tyrants and their abettors,
from the New York Herald upward or downward to
the remotest savannahs of the South.
It was the anti-slavery enterprise, that twinkling
star, which sent more terror to the hearts of the ty
rants, than the hand-writing upon tlie wall sent to
the heart of the proud king of Babylon.
I ask all in this audience, is there any thing here
instructive ? Is there any thing worthy of your con
sideration ? You all agree, I suppose, with Henry
Clay, that slavery is a wrong; that it ought not to
exist. How comes it, then, that so many are gather
ed in defence of the Church that upholds it —gather-
ed in behalf of the popular religion and the enter
prises to which I have referred ? How comes it that
all this tempest of power is gathered at the same
time in one blast of focal indignation upon this move
ment, while all others are spared ? Have you thought
of it ? Have you considered in whose ranks you are
found ? What has the anti-slavery movement done ?
What has it proposed to do ? It compels no man to
unite with it. It compels no man to.look approvingly
upon it. It only asks what these other bodies claim,
and what the government concedes to them. It only
asks a free field and fair discussion; and when you
have crushed it by argument, you have crushed it
for ever. But let me tell you, nothing less than the
power of truth—nothing less than the power of
the omnipotent God is able to stay the rushing tide of
human sympathy, that swells gloriously upward from
so many divine souls.
Now, will ye fight against this movement ? Ye had
better beware, ‘ lest haply ye be found fighting against
God.’ Do you know any thing else so immortal as
the anti-slavery enterprise ? Did n’t ye combine all
your energies twenty years ago against it ? Did n’t
ye, like Herod of old, put every infant to death on
the floor of Congress in the right of petition, that ye
might destroy the child Jesus who had come to ask
for the overthrow of slavery—the deliverance of the
captive. Did not the Governor of this Common
wealth [Gov. Everett] recommend that the anti-sla
very cause be visited with the artillery of penal enact
ment ? Did ho not recommend to the Legislature to
open its batteries and enact its laws against it ? Did
not the country, North and- South, conspire against
it ? Did you not raise earth and hell against the ris
ing tide of humanity and human sympathy ? Has
not the mob been howling on its track from that day
to the present ? Has not the Church and have not
the clergy visited it with their direst anathemas, con
suming, like the anger of the Hebrew God, to the
lowest hell ? And yet what do you behold ?
‘ Truth crushed to earth will rise again.’ This
cause was never crushed. With all this terrible tem
pest of opposition, this movement stands, and ever
has stood, like a rock in mid ocean, against which the
billows of centuries have been beating, but have
beaten in vain. Now, cannot you learn wisdom ?
Cannot the young men learn wisdom ? The anti-sla
very enterprise is a good deal older than some of you,
and it has withstood sterner shocks than you can bring
against it. It was at one time nearly embodied in the
heart, I might almost say, of a single individual, and
yet the God of the oppressed held him in the hollow
of his hand, and no weapon turned against him was
suffered to prosper. Young men ! your fathers tried
it, but they found it too mighty for them.
‘ Your fathers found the force too strong,
Nor should the children try.’
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS 1
TIIE U. S. CONSTITUTION ‘ A COVENANT WITH DEATH,
AND AN AGREEMENT WITH HELL.’
iW ‘ Yes ! it cannot be denied—the slavel.olding
lords of the South prescribed, as a condition of their
assent to the Constitution, three special provisions to
secure the perpetuity of their domlirioji over their
slaves. The first was the immunity, for twenty-years,
of preserving the African slave trade; the second was"-'
the stipulation to surrender fugitive slaves—an en
gagement positively prohibited by the laws of God,
delivered from Sinai; and, thirdly, the exaction, fatal
to the principles of popular representation, of a repre
sentation for slaves —for articles of merchandize, under
the name of persons. . . To call government thus con
stituted a democracy, is to insult the understanding of
mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of
riches and slavery. Its reciprocal operation upon the
government of the nation is to establish an artificial
majority in the slave representation over that of ilio
free people, in the American Congress, and thereby
to make the PRESERVATION, PROPAGATION
AND PERPETUATION OF SLAVERY THE VI
TAL AND ANIMATING SPIRIT OF THE NA
TIONAL GOVERNMENT.’ — John Quincy Adams.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, PRINTERS.
You had better stand aloof. If it be of men, it
will fall, and you will save your reputation as oppo
sers of the public peace. But if it be of God, it will
be your wisdom and your prudence to at least refrain
from it, and let it alone. It is out of the reach of vour
artillery. Fire cannot consume it; flood cannot drown
it; famine cannot starve it; sword cannot destroy it.
It is immortal in its own intrinsic excellence, and can
no more die than God can die.
Now, then, had you not better let it alone, or, at
least, meet it by fair argument? And then there is
an excellent suggestion, I think, (if I have not forgot
ten the little I ever did read in books,) an excellent
suggestion in Watt’s Logic ; and that is, ‘in carrying
on a discussion, unless you have the fullest confidence
in your own powers, the wiser way is to proceed by
question rather than by declaration and open asser
tion.’ I think your great head in Massachusetts—l
mean no less a person than ‘ the godlike ’ —has given
you a lesson in himself. I think you have seen him
eating up his past declarations, (O, what a repast!)
in such a way as to prevent you from pouring out
your own, so as to be obliged to devour the terrible
sacrament.
If you argue as men, palsied be the hand and si
lent the tongue which should not meet you with
Christian courtesy and kindness. You see the effect
of that kind of demonstration in New York. There
was a missionary I read of the other day. He went
to Hindostan to convert the worshippers of Jugger
naut; but he made a bad speculation, and finally
made a contract with the people to run their car of
Juggernaut by steam. [Laughter, and cries of ‘ Shame,
Shame! ’]
In New York the other day, the anti-slavery move
ment came near receiving as powerful an auxiliary as
the ear of Juggernaut had. We gained the assistance
of Capt. Rynders. We yoked that whirlwind to our
car, and never had the chariot of anti-slavery such a
team before. [Prolonged applause.] If you wish to
do this,to thus aid us, New York has set you a glo
rious example ; and I hope tii@~£Hne reinsman who
guided with bit and bridle that at first -
able caravan will be able to guide you, so that what
you mean for our harm, God shall mean it for our
good, and the wrath of man shall thus praise him.
And what wrath does not praise him, God himself
will restrain. [Reiterated plaudits.]
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Wednesday —Forenoon Session.
Mr. Chairman :
Allow me to make a few observations as to a part
of the speech to which we have- listened [from Mr.
Hosmer]. And first, as to the charge of abuse and
denunciation; we plead guilty to no such charge.
We do not plead guilty to using uncharitable lan
guage. Is any man able to take this platform, and
show that we have used an epithet concerning any
one, which is not justified by the facts, and by his
well-known character ? We will not grant that we
have used an abusive epithet. Merely because a word
ascribes to an act or a man a great amount of infamy,
is no evidence that that word is abusive. Words
are made for use : the fault lies in deserving them :
the abuse in applying them unfairly or unkindly.
We would not proclaim the truth merely because it
was offensive and severe, but we would not keep back
any necessary truth merely because it would give of
fence. A question lies behind this constant accusa
tion. It is this ; Have we a right to speak the truth ?
Is it, or is it not, necessary to describe truly the condi
tion of society and the character of men with whom
we are brought in conflict, in order that we may cpro
an evil or correct a vice ? There is a maudlin charity
which shuts its eyes upon the sins of society, and
seems to think that vice is to be taken out of the body
politic as Eve was out of Adam, by putting him
to sleep. Wo cannot thus wheedle the community.
The devil is wiser than we think. The slaveholder .
is not appeased by delicate language. If ho perceives
in the individual an earnest purpose and a pledged
determination against his system, he hates him just as
much for that purpose wrapped up in a honied phrase,
as if it were expressed in rough old Saxon. The only
thing such a writer gains is, the Irish loss of being
unintelligible, dull, or doubted by the community.
Dr. Channing wrote with a calmness, with a care
fully chosen phraseology, with an absence of all strong
language, which no man can ever expect to go be
yond. Was he liked? Did the slaveholder, when
he perceived Channing to be in earnest, welcome him
as an agreeable critic ? Dr. Channing had his por
tion of abuse on the floor of Congress and in
Southern press, side by side with John Quincy Ad
ams. He was doing a work for the disciplined and
thoughtful, for the secluded and peaceful. There
was something more to be done in taking this torch
of truth, and carrying it forward so as to arrest the
attention of the masses. This can only be done by
the plainest speech, by words so spontaneous, instead
of weighed and guarded, that they alone prove the
speaker sincere and in earnest, and secure him a hear
ing.
«For men in earnest have no time to waste
In patching fig leaves for the naked truth.’
If, then, you dislike our terms, show us that they
arc not true. And if you cannot, show us that it is
not necessary truly to describe a great evil, in order
to ensure its destruction. Surely, the best thing for
an honest man to say is to speak that which comes
uppermost. If he does not speak from temper or ill
will, let him welcome, if he can with truth, the whole
vocabulary of the Anglo Saxon tongue, and hurl its
hottest thunderbolts at the violator of justice.
Daniel O’Connell has described the American citi
zen who holds slaves as the most despicable of men,
and a political hypocrite of the very worst description.
The gentleman who has addressed you thinks there
are other classss of men who are more despicable than
the American slaveholder. He spoke of the Northern
supporter of slavery. Let it be remembered, howev
er, that Daniel O’Connell had not read the last speech
of Daniel Webster. [Hisses and plaudits.] We muaf
interpret his language according to his time, and he
spoke w T hen, as it were, American infamy was in the
gristle, and not yet hardened into the bone of its pres,
ent manhood. Providence gives us, every year, fit-
AVIIOLE NO. 1015.