THE MA HI SON IAN.
ST JOHN B. JONES.
prick op advjsht18inu.
Twelvelinva, or lens,three insertions, - - #1 00
Exch aOdiuoiiiil iiim iHon, Longer
advertiaeinenta at proportionate ratee.
A liberal diacount made to thoae who advertise by
the your.
o Subscriber* may remit by mail, in billa of aolveni
unlike,povlu^e paid, at our ruk; provided it ahull
appei r by a postmaster'* cerliiicale, that auch remittance
ha* been duly mailed.
TERMS:
Daii.y per annum, (in advance,) - - - - $10 00
For semi-weekly per annum, .... 5 00
For?ix mouth*, " 3 00
Weekly, " 2 00
For rix mouth*, - " 125
fj" All letter* inuat be ?<ldreaaed (free of postage)
IU IIM CUIIOI .
Pi stmaaters throughout the Union are requested to
act i b our agents. Those who may particularly exert
themselves in extending the circulation of the paper
vill not only be allowed a liberal commission on
sunn remitted, hut receive our warmeiii thanks.
THE M A JD I.S ON 1 A N .
THE NATIONAL CONVENTION.
We advocate the District system and the per
capita vote, because we desire the preservation
of the intergrity as well as the ascendency of
the true Republican party, for upon these the
welfare of the country and the permanency of
our Government must depend. We fear that 1
the existence of political cliques in the country,
if they shall acquire an immense power and j
evert 4111 undue influence over the councils of I
the nation, would, in time, like the Jacobin
Clubs in France, overthrow our system of Government,
or convert it, in every thing else but in
name, into an oligarchy. Therefore we are not
only opposed to granting exclusive privileges
to particular individuals, but likewise to the too
long possession of political power by this or that
leader of a party.
We would not be understood as desiring the
downfall of any great champion of the People's
interests; we would merely give the reasons
which convince us that the party leaders, in a
R-public, should frequently lay down their
badge of authority at the feel of those who conlerred
it. If they have not abused the confidence
repo-ed in them?if they have only exerted
the powers ? conferred upon them for the
" greatest good of the greatest number," an intelligent
People will surely reinvest them with
authority.
Such watchfulness and jealousy we conceive
to be not only necessary lor the safely of the
People, but also for the continued success of the
Republican party ; for if a certain press or
clique of politicians, whose guidance has been
once followed, shall continue to exercise authority
indefinitely without appealing to the People
for a renewal of the tru-t, envy, strife and contention
will naturally spring up, which will inevitably
diminish the numbers of the party.?
Such a press or clique cannot be exempt from
the frailties of our nature ; and the permission
to command, with the power to execute, afiera
too long indulgence in th? direction of the affairs
of the party, would be likely to result in iutole
ranee and dictation when checked or opposed
by the People.
Such a press or such a clique would, of course,
* be liable to the same temptations which have
beset those at the helm of public affairs la ail
countries. A press which believes it has the
power to elevate this or that man to the Presidency
to the exclusion of others equally as deserving,
might be tempted to require great rewards
from its favor,te ; and the aspirant, if he
be convinced that the press absolutely possesses
' this power, may be tempted to grant them. In
this way the Presidency might bi come a matter
of " bargain and sale;" and the press which
could do this, would not hesitate to read out cf
the party sucii meaner creatures as Governor.*,
Cabinet ministers, and members of Congress,
to say nothing of humble editois, if they proved
to be contumacious?nay, 44 rid?i over them
r? ugh shod," and 14 drag them to the slake," if
they resisted. And the permanent establishmenl
of -uch a power as tins, and so exercised,
must either rtduce the party to a minority, or
ultimately usurp the powers of the Government,
1 r all (he members would finally be brought in
suhjeciiun to it.
Fur such reasons, and others, we de-ire the 1
next candidate for the Presidency to be named J
by the People. Let the press echo the will of |
.i... doaru ,i..n, t .? k. n..u I
...C . VU|.C, sav. ...C icc.c- ,
gates lo the National Convention be elected
directly by the Pcop'e, and each of the Delegates
vole in Convention accord n$ to the in- j
gtructions of his immediate con-iiiuenis. In
Ihi^ manner the wi-hes ol the whole People will
be fuily, (airly and unequivocally Cauif lied with.
We think no candidate who depi nds more
upon the support ( f a majority of his ci untrvmen,
than he does on jiarty machinery, will
venture to object to the District plan and the
per capita vole. And in this way, and, we believe
hi no other, ran the integrity and ascendt
ncy of the party be preserved. We fear thai no
other mode can he adopted hy which the whole
party can be rallied under the bannerof onecand
id.He.
THE GLOBE DOWN UPON MR. KENDALL.
Frtim Ihr (lh.be of Moni ,y.
" The Expositor has thrice avowed (tie opinion
that the door of tli Democratic Convr ntiori oinjht to
he opened to Mr. Tyler as a Democratic, candidate
for the Presidency ; declared its w illineness to ?uppuit
him ; and joined the Boston Post in welcoming
Mr. Mete-haw lo the Cabinet as a deserving Democrat?one,
therefore, who could brin* Democralic
support to it, l>y giving in Democratic adhesi n; and
now we are covertly rebuked for using " offrnrire
irropons" against these worthies, which should " bt
rttti red J r the M 'off*-"
4 Thrice!'' 'That enough. Mr. Kendall
may now consider himself exeommunicat-d,
44 ridden over rough-hod," nnd "4 dragged to the
slake." He was thought to stand between the
Globe and the Congressional printing, and of
course it was m cessnry to put him out of the
way. He is now read out of the patty as effectual
v is Me*sr<. Henshaw, Nelson, Porter,
Shannon, Dawson, the editor ol the Boston Post,
and about a half million others 44 too numerous
to mention." We Hiould like to know if in
banishing him from the partv, he has been libr
rated Iroin ihe prison bounds.
The (?h.he says :
"The. uneasiness guardedly expressed in several
passages of the hist Expositor, referring to the Globe
as to the use it makes of ils 44 njfnrtiire weapons," ean
only arise out ol our oppugnation to Mr. Tyler,
whom Mr. Kendall consolers n Democratic candidate.
If> do not ?r> consider Aim."
fl
VOL. VII.?NO. 2.] W j
Mr. Blair is nui only an oppugrirr of President
Tyler, but pugnacious willi any body ehe
that interferes. Mr. Kendall should have recollected
that the (jllobe was the Dictator of the
Democratic Universe. Mr. Kendall should not
have dared to consider Mr. Tyler one of the
Democratic candidates: Mr. ttlair dots "not
so consider nun. fttr. rvenciau stiouici nave
known that the Democratic People have no
-ight to support Mr. Tvler?for Mr. Blair had,
mure titan 41 thrice," said his name should not
be introduced in the National Convention.?
The whole matter has been definitively settled
by the Globe. No man should dare to open his
mouth.
From the Hurriiburg Enqui er if Signal.
"UNION FOR THE SAKE OF PLUNDER."
The above would be an appropriate motto for the
plunderers to adopt. The public are aware that
thev go for principle in proportion to ii.terest. If any
proof were wanting to sustain this ass. rtion we
would refer the reader to the fact, that some of the
"Union" men despatched a messenger to Gov. Porter
in April last, with authority to negotiate a treaty
ol peace on the fo lowing terms: That if the Governor
would veto the bill passed by the Legislature,
giving the printing to the lowest bidder, McKinley &.
Lescure, then of the Keystone, would retract all
they had previously said aga.nst him, and support his
administration witli all the zeal they could command.
Tnis proportion was rejected with scorn, as it deserved
to be. Men who would thus olfer to sell
lhi.m.,.1 i.r.o ..-o o....nt.lo imnirin -ihlo , I, u I ?,,,. I
And yet they would palm themselves offas publishers
of the org,n of the whole Democratic parly of
Pennsylvania!' Was such impertinence ever heard
of be lore?
The Union spoken of above, is the paper so
much quoted by the Qlobe, which slates that
Gov. Porter has transferred the Democracy to
Mr. Tyler, like a (luck of sheep.
The Boston Post furnishes a capital satire
on the Plot discovered by theUnion, Globe and
Pennsylvanian :
THE TUB PLOT.
We have alluded to the leagues, conspiracies and
plots with which the press has of late been filled ?
We have hunted up some details of an old federal
revelation of a pretended democratic plot, especially
for the benefit of tho?e who seem determined that
there shall be a plot, and that detnocrais shall believe
it. It is the one called the Tub Plot. It was detected
in 1799, about the lime so much w as said about
" Illuminati," the " French Jacobins," the " Wild
Irishmen," "Robinson's Proofs of a Conspiracy,"
"Barreul's Revelations of the Horrors of Jacobinism,"
" Dr. Morse's ocean massacre sermon and Exposition
of French Intrigue,' " Harper's Clues to
Conspiracies," and other terrible things which Jeff,
rson mentions in bis memoirs. The great point of
alarm was to make the people believe that French
conspirators were to destroy the lib, rties of America;
the great federal merit consisted in the detection of
their various schemes to effect this object.
In February, 1799, Timothy Picketing, then Secretary
of State of the United States, advised Governor
llutledge, of South Carolina, that four persons had
sailed from Hamburg for Charleston, who were in
the employment of the French Government, and that
they bore about them despatches of a treasonable nature.
Mr. Pickering also sent a minute description
of the vessel and the individuals, with the further information
that these papere were to be concealed iri
" two false-bottomed tubs." He requested that both
persons arid papers might be secured. On the 21st
of February, this vessel, the Minerva, Capt. Cramp,
arrived at Charleston, 119 days from Hamburg. She
was lorinwun ooaroeu uy wiaj. simmons, me conector
of the port, Mr. William Crafla, U. 8 agent for
the naval and war department, " with proper assistance"?the
usual posse commitatus. 1 he vessel and
passengers were searched, and the obnoxious indi
viduals identified and seized. The papers Were found
as described in the letter of the Secretary of Stale.
Says a Charleston journal?federal?of Fob. 22:
" The tubs were broken open and the papers taken
out; the horrors of guilt were depicted strongly on
the countenances of the guilty u retches, and their
bodies shook with fear and trembling."
There were four uien?three mulattoe* and one
while man?and one woman, " who," continues the
narration, " was evidently concerned in ihe conspiracy
and endeavored lo lake tare of the tubs under her
arm " Tliey were ail confined hi Fort Pinekney.
The papeis were, in due form, delivered to Maj. r
General Pinekney, who careliidy transmitted ihem
ti Colonel Pit kt ring. Tin -e were announced as foreign
agents, employed by those who were engaged
in a conspiracy agjinst the citizens of the IJnltcr)
States, the soul of which was the famous Talhyjand.
Their part of the business was represented lo
' he " to efl'ect the conflagration of the city of Charles
ton and the insurrection of the, negroes."
The account of this "delected conspiracy" flew
like wildfire over the countr.. Then ihe public mind
was inflamed to the light pilch to enable ihe story to
gain credit. It was proclaimed in flaming capitals,
in hand lulls and in ihe newspapers. The tir-t ru
mor of tins " plot" received in New Y< rk, sa> on a
Sunday morning, by a vessel from Charleston. The
editor of the Mercantile Advertiser thought the news
so " interesting to the counliy" as to require the utmost
despatch. Accordingly lie is-ue.l an extra
sheet. We extract the following paragraph from it
from the Boston Ccntinel ol March 9, 1799, into
which it w as copied :
"ANTICIPATED NEWS.
Mr. King, who arrived yesterday from New York,
s;nee null, politely handed lis copies of the. subsequent
handbill, publi?hed in New York on Sunday
last :?
'Utfice of the Mercantile Advertiser, March 3,1793.
Sunday morning.
T he editor is inch-bled to a gentleman of this city,
wl o politely handed liiui the Charleston State (??jelle
of the 2.'d ult., received bv a vessel arrive !
this morning from Charleston. Its contents are ol a
nature an interesting to our country, that we cannot
delay a moment in laying them b< fore our patrons
and the politic. We have therefore isaued an extra
diret; and we hop> the magnitude of the subject
w ill serve as an apology lor tins breach of the fourth
commandment.'"
The hand loll is too 1 >ng to copy, as it makes near
a e lumn of matter. It goes most minutely into the
history of this awliil [dot, and is duly ornamented
with capitals. The story is lully credited hy the lederali.-.ts
and as fully ridiculed hy the democrats.?
They seized upon its weak points, and chai aeteiized
the w hole as a federal trick. To meet this storm ol
ridicule, the Centinel, Maich 2d, printed the following,
which at this day does not seem to mend the matter
much :?
"THE DETECTED CONSPIRACY
at Charlrnton, i* confirmed from all quarters. The
agents are in prison, and their paper* sent to the St
trtlory of Slutr I fir cot,ragrall>n 01 i' r cuy 01
Charleston, and an m?urrccii n of tho negroes ol tlir
South, are two of the ite i s of the con?piration The
early discovery of the plot establishes the pre-eminent
vigilance of our executive; and it i* wholly
owing to tin- false delicacy of the paragraphia!* <il
Charlrntm, who liist narrated the event, that a ridiculous
levity has been attached to a very ?erioti* aff'ur.
In*tead ot tubs, the iifen?ils in which the paper*
were cunningly concealed, were those of a god ess,
to whom the f rench pay their iIrwin with an unrivalled
nonchalance."
This " detected conspiracy," which wa* so serious
a* to lie announced in hand-bills on Sunday, turned
out to he nothing more nor le-s than the arrival of a
French courtezan at Charleston. The " papers so
formally transmitted to the Secretary of State were
a parcel of love letter*; and two or three sma I
trunks, containing her wearing apparel, constituting
her whole property, were magnified into tubs of sedition*
papers, prepared for the purpose r,f distribution
among ihe slaves in the Southern States'
So much lor the humbug tub plot. Its detail* wo re
exposed during the operation of the alien and sedition
law*, when the Federalists represented that the country
was as lull of " internal traitors," as some of our
Democratic friends would have us believe the rank*
!)p ifla
\SH I NUTON : THUKSl
of tfie Democracy now are. The former was a a true
us tlie latter is. Few Federalist:* there are now, who
do not laugh at the ridiculous alarm tins fancied plot
created. There will he few Democrats, among those
who now believe what is said of plotting arid counterplotting,
who will not, ere long, laugh also ut their
present credulity.
THE ELECTION ?
In Tennessee, Jones is elected Governor
over Polk by a large majority. Governor Polk
may charge his defeat to the Globe. A conciliatory
spirit should have been cultivated, and
the Sub-Tieusuiy not even named.
The 7th and 8th Districts have elected Whig
members of Congress?the 4th and 9th, Republicans.
Eight Republican and six Whig members ot
the State Senate have been elected, which is as
far as hud been heard from.
Niuetei n Republicans and twenty-four Whigs
to the House of Representatives.
Such is the remit, as far as heard from, taken
from the Nashville Union, the Republican journal.
In Noirrn Carolina, eight of the new Congressional
Districts have been heard from.?
Each parly has four members certain?both
claim the uncertain District. We give the
names of the members elect: j
Whigs. Republicans.
James Graham, or T. L. Romulous Saunders.
Clingham. J. j. McKay,
D. Al. liarringer, Daniel,
E. Deb?*rry, E. F. Arlington.
Kenneth Kayner.
Valuable hints.
Kendall's Expositor is administering some
well-timed hints to tlte Cilobe. We lind the lollowing
items in the la-t Expositor:
THE GLOBE?MR. VAN BUREN.
Tlie Globe of the 27th ult. says: "The heterogeneous
itifluenc. s combined against him [Mr. Van
Bureii] furnish decisive evidence of his strength.
I'hey have concentrated all their forces aguin-t him
as the bulwark of Democracy ; and the point of attack
c'tarly indicates where the rally should be made in
defence."
We think every Democratic paper should follow
the example of the Globe in avowing its preference,
whether it he for Mr. Van Buren or any other candidate.
It is one of the means by which the will o!
the majority can be ascertained. These avowals,
however, ought, in our opinion, to be without reflection
upon any other Democratic candidate. Let our
offensive weapons be reserved lor the Whigs.
*??
TYLER PARTY.
A letter from Harrisburg published in the Globe,
says : " There is no Tyler Party in Pennsylvania?nor
any where else that I have heard o/."
What, then, are some of our friends so lustily
fighting? If not literally true, this assertion is a practical
truth. " John Jones," s.iys the letter, " may
ju><t as well countermand the order [to org0"'"] so
far as Pennsylvania is concerned ; for they can never
organize a sufficient force erm to elect a township constable."
Why, then, should Democracy expend so
I much excellent thunder upon these pigmies of the
valley, when the Cyclops are out upon the mountain
?
Would not the Washington Globe be better employed
in warring against the Clay party, than in violent
attacks on President Tjler?
Is not a defence of our own distinguished political
leaders, of more importance at this time, than the
motives of action by which Messrs. Henshaw and
Nelson were guided in accepting seats in the Oabi
net ?
Have we no enemies among the public pre??
against whom our batteries can be more properly directed
than the Madis man ?
We ask for information.?Petersburg (fa ) Republican.
We have a>ked the same question some twen;
ty and each time the reply was a broadside.
We have even borne these broadside* with
our proverbial equanimity of temper, in the
hope that the editor would ere long find out that
he was mistaken, and then point his guns at the
common enemy. But nil to no purpose. We
think we will be justified in retorting the
Globe's fire, if its offensive operations are continued
much longer.
INDIANA.
A letter from this St3te informs us that there is a
general dissatisfaction in the Democratic party at the
position hi which they have been placed by the action
of the State Convention held last January. Thai
Convention assemnled lor Ho- | in pose of nominating
slate officers, arid took upon themselves to elect
,i Delegation to the Presidential Convention?sll, we
believe, Van lluren men- -though, says the writer, it
is well known t at the party there prefer Cass or
Johnson. Me thinks the people will support the
State nominations with sufficient unanimity to carry
them?but not so, he says, with regard to Van
' Burro. With many of the party he has no favor,
! and the unfair manner taken by the polith al manic
| gers to secure the vote ol Indiana fur t is nomination,
is likely to t?e f.iial to his rhancc of getting tier vote
in the election. It wo ulil be wo- I if the wire-woikers
would ihirik of this. It would add little to Mr. Van
Burcn's reputation to oe again nominated and again
defeated. The politicians may nominate, hut tho
people alone ran elect?and ol them no snap judgment*
can he t .ken. If they like not the. nominations,
if they have cause to believe that their own
withes have been ov< rlnoked and ttiot they have been
treate I as chattel* t > In transferred at pleasure, l>y
the managers, they may not indeed rchel?but they
w ill he dis-ati f.'d?they will slay at home, and the
candidates w ill he defeated ?C arlrston .Mercury.
Sit, it dune by machinery- We saw the
.. .1 ...... , t-.-r l.w. k. ii_.i
tviii v% iiitii ii T* a** | u uu, mi'j n i n / vv w u w puiiru
it. There is s methiyet to be said :?l>out the
famous IaJiana corresp >uding committee.
jl.?- Mr. Hives of the Globe lias written a
long lettet to the ?ditor of the Missouri Siandard,
which (hating his a tacks on our friends)
we have read with great pleasure; it isi xtreme- .
Iv enierta nine, as are all of his productions,
and we would re.id tlietn if tliey were twice as
lengthy and came four times *s often.
Our desire is, however, to correct two erron
he has fallen into. We assure him the corre
sponuent ne reters tots not tnc gentleman no
lc i^natrs?hence he docs him gnat injustice
hy the personal allusion in Ins retort. The one
whom lie supposes to he the author of the letter
referred t >, has never written a letter for publication
in the Madison an, since we owned it,
to which his name was not appended in full.
In matters of a personal or private character, he
never shrinks from the eye of his foe.
Mr. Rives is also mistaken in his assertion
that the Postmaster at St. Louis franks the let
tern of our correspondents. He has never done
s i in a single instance that we remember.
Mr. Tlrn?haw the ne * )y appointed Secretary of
the. N ivy, assumed the duties of that department on
the 25th nit.
Mr llenshaw rocs into the cabinet a well-tried
and consistent democrat, and wi.h the warm commendations
of nearly the entire repuhkean pr<Ns of
New Kitgland.?Alabama 7Yibunr. I
V
!'- J"
bi&onia
) A Y, AlKU'ST 17, IS
PUBLIC DINNER TO GOV. CULMEK |
A public dinner being tendered Gov. Gilmer ,
by the eili/ens of Amherst county, Va., the I
Governor iu accepting the invitation replied as
follows:
Charlottesville, July 31, 1843
Gentlemen '. I have the honor to acknowledge
your communication of the !28tli inst. inviting me, on
behalf of tny friends in Amherst, to a public dinner
at your Court House on the 15th August; and to as
sure you of the pleasure it will afford me to unite
wi h you, and with those whose organ you are, in
testifying our devotion to republican principles.
While 1 am not conscious of having rendered any
public service which has not been more than com- |
pensated by the continued confidence of my fellow- |
citizen*, I cannot be insensible to this add tinnal
proof of their regard, or unwilling, at their bidding
to mingle our common sympathies in behalf of our
country's best interests, around the festive board, or
011 any other occasion which their generous hospi
talily shall select. Honors, like offices, where it s
the duty of all to love and to serve their country, helong
to no man. They arc part of the prerogative
of the people, who, in conferring or withholding
them, will have more regard to the public interests
than to private feelings. In accepting your kind invitation,
then, gentlemen, it is no affectation of modesty
which induces me to appropriate to tnyself only a
very small poUfiyn of a compliment wbich is sometimes
misconstrued as hating u?? higher import then [
the meats and dishes of a feast, or the appetite of a j
guest. We shall meet, gentlemen, I trust, not merely
lo eat <r to drink, or to pass idle compliments to
men, hut to warm up our own, and to kindle in others
a zeal ftr the free and glorious institutions of our
country?a zeal for principles too dear to all to be
sacrificed for personal predilections or antipathies.
Allow ne to congratulate you too, gentlemen, that
we shall ncet under circumstances more propitious
for calm reflection and patriotic rejoicing, than we
have done since the relation of constituent and repre- i
sentative hound us together. The clouds of error j
and preiulice w hich have obscured the judgments of i
the best aid wisest in reference to the true interests i
of the comlry, and which have impacted so much
bitterness to our party conflicts, have been already |
partially iispelled by the light of experience; and
the puhlii mind is beginning to investigate, and will j
or\An /laoilo I hu rvriinl nnlitinnl miocliAnu mhiufi hnvo
been somitimes considered, I lament to say, more in
reference to the personal advancement of a few, than
the perrmnent political interest of the many. '1 he i
people hrve discovered that they have little to pain ;
or to loss, where political contests have no higher
objects toan the success of one man or the defeat of !
another that public men and political parties should ;
be known not by the names they assume, but by the
measure! they advo ate; ihat prom ses of relief are !
more eaiily made before an election, than redeemed !
afterwaids ; that Government may do a great deal to j
encourage extravagance, idleness, embarrassment,
and diit*ess, from which the people must at last extricate
themselves by honest, untrammelled industry
and ecoiomy; that national banks and bounties may
promote a morbid system ot false credit, which,
though the evil day may be long postponed, will
eventually sacrifice the labor and property of its victims
wihout remorse and without remedy; that with- !
out the agency of these dangerous stimulants, and in ]
despite of their still pernicious influences, times are
getting Letter, prices better, exchanges and interest !
lower thin they have ever been before, and confidence
is grudually hut surely reviving ; that true re- s
form must begin at the foundation, and remove those '
causes which render Governments corrupt and indi '
viduals sordid, which regard public debt and extra- 1
vagant appropi iations as pretexts for high and unequal
taxes, and encourage the citizen to exchange
the slow but surer acquisitions of industry for the
sudden gain of speculation and fraud; that there is
nothing in the examples or the principles of European
Governments worthy of American imitation,
especially in those examples or those principles
which, under the spirit of enlightened commerce, are
relaxing i heir iron grasp even in England; that the j
harmony and prosperity of our Union depend essen j
Ually on those very cau-es which, on superficial ob- |
servution, seem to threaten its dissolution, but which, ;
when pfoperly understood, lead to mutual depend- j
ence, respect, confidence, and strength.
I am, with sincere esteem, your fellow-citizen,
THOMAS VV. GILMER. 1
To Ve*srs. Geo. W. Davis, H. W. Quarles, and
Paulu.s Powell, Committee.
[ti< anslatiuk]
From Oit roHtviUt Dcmokratishe Prryhtiti-Prtsu.
GOVBRNOR A. WlC&LIFfE POBTMAB*
TER GENERAL.
Since President Tylercalled this distinguished Re- I
publican into his Cabinet to preside over the Post
Office Department, we have carefully and closely
scanned his public acts and conduct, and confer ,
that we most heartily approve of the cour-e hitherto
pursued by this worthy officer. The duties pertain- j
mg to the Office of Post Master General are most
undoubtedly mere multifarious, intricate and important
than those of any other branch of our National
Government, when we reflect that the care of about
]400 Post Offices under I - general superintendence,
that the giving out of the very number us conti ict- fur
carrying the mail", See. &r., all devolve upon hint.
Hut notwithstanding I i? station is a laborious and
responsible one, Mr. Wickl'jje does it full justic n?
He is emphatically a business man, uniting untiring
mduitiy and perseverance. He takes oil his
coat and goes to woik hint self, hn owing ihnt it is
then w ell done. During the short period Gov. \V.
has been at the head of the P O. Department, he
has introduced salutary improvements and reforms; i
curtailed txperist s and increased mail faciliti' s ILs
sole object is to accommodate the public, strictly to
enforce the existing laws of the P. O. I epartment, .
and to discharge Ins duties with impartiality ami fidelity,
regardless of denunciaiioi s Iroin any quarter.
Faithless and in efficient < eputies find no grace with
him. They have to " walk the plank" v. ry quick
Default < ditto. Appeals to party avjilcth nothing
with linn.
The Tost Offices of our country wore probably
never better organized tl an now, and always will ,
remain so as long as the pre si nt talented nnd etfi- 1
eicnt public servant w ill be tlie chief of this important
branch of the ( ublic service. lie is deservedly
one of the most popular men that ever presided over
t? F. () Department. Although coming in offiee
at a time when the Department was deeply indent,
and having to encounter thousands of other difficul- ^
ties, we liclieve the day is not far remote when he
will restore the financial condition of the Department '
to i's once flourishing state, during the days ot John J
M'Isan.
THE DISTRICT SYSTEM. j1
The Democracy ? f Wake <'ounty, North |
Carolina, held a meeting on the 4tli instant, and
recommended? ,
I. That em h Congressional district choose one or 1 i
more delegates to the said Convention, a* they may i
see fit i *
2 That the State ('(invention nominate two addi
tional de egales for the State at large. I
h'r m the Lincoln (Ale ) Republican.
THE SECRETARY OF I'llK TKEANli.VY i
'I'hn man who, like our present Secretary of the i
Treasury, is saving this nali in millions hy Ins talei D i
as a financier, a d tiis method and untiring industry,
Will not be. compelled to resoit to a parly name, or
take shelter under its influence, to become a lavonte
among the people. I!i> modesty will not eonei alhim :
from ihe. business call, and in due. time the sovereign
people must and will demand his distinguished scm- '
res lor the highest *pliem of action.
|
iwi \ ,\ i.mm ii m \?n/.kti i:kr ran nan orrn
srni to us by Mr. Franck Tavlor. Ii contains
n large and beautiful map of Asia. i
a
n.
i ;*. [WHOLE NO. 965.
DISTRICT CONVENTIONS.
The Liberty ltunner, of the 2Htli ult. thus expressc
its views of ihe question, whether Delegates should
he selected to the National Convention by districts 01
by a Stute Convention :
" We copy from the Boonville Register, to-dny
an article which goes far towards confirming wha>
we already have some ev dence of, in regard to poll
tieul movements, for the purpose of stilling and
silencing a large portion, and pe haps the larger portion,
of the democracy of tins State, who prefer tht
nomination of Colonel Johnson over Mr. Van liuren.
We wish to join the Register in giving a solemr
warning to those democrats not to persist too long.
"The question whether we shall have a State
Convention or District Convention, is one w hich can
not he viewed by any one with unconcern.
" Many ol us have too fresh in our memories the
intrigues of Conventions, and it is to tie feared thai il
.mother Slate Convention is called, the same rude
conduct of disregarding the will of the people and
trampling upon the rights of individuals will hi
enacted?the same disregard to merit will he shown,
and the hat and little tickets will tie passed around
to designate who is the most meritorious man.
" The people have no confidence in them and it is
right they should not; because the free action of tin
voters are stilled, and they are compelled to vote the
will of others and not their own. it is true, the peo
pie m tins seelmii of the State are not opposed to al<
Conventions ; they believe, as far as we understa d
them, that there are tunes when State Conventions
ace absolutely necessary, but such times occur hut
seldom, when there is some great necessity for at
mining a single object, and not whenever the cool
calculations of a de-jgning lew, wish to promote
their ow n ends and the interests of their superiors.
Again, we aie ail aid that if a Stale Convention be
called, and the same curtain he raised over the same
plby that was played by tiic caucus that it will drive
thousands of honest democrats to the standard ol
other ranks?will not our contemporaries take into
consideration the thousands who voted for General
Murrison under the strange delusion that they were
it.red of our rank, and who have now won their way
hack to Democracy, and are willing to go with us, if
they can be heard? Will we admit them, or force
them again to vote against Mr. Van Buren in ld44r
If we lose that influence at our next election, we
never may hope to have it again ; and it will contribute
largely .to our defeat in after years; we sincerely
predict that if the D. inocracy is run over and their
rights trampled under foot oner more by arrogant dictation
of interested politicians, that the fountains of
our strength in Missouri will he broken up; we 3re
willing, however, if a majority of the counties are in
lavor of it to go heartily into a State Convention?
and not otherwise."
From the Buffalo Gazette.
The District System.?We perceive that many
of the democratic paper* of this State advocate the
choosing of delegates to the National Convention by
districts, that the voice of the people may he more
directly heard in that body. If it is desirable to have
the democratic principle prevail in our political matters,
the nearer we can approach to it in its purity,
the safer will be our action. The people are the
founta.n of all power, and must act, either of themselves,
or through agents. It is evident that the more
these agents can be dispensed with, the less likelihood
there will be that the will of the governing
aower will be defeated, by treachery and corruption.
There can lie no good reason urged why the people
ihould not choose delegates to the National Convention
by a direct vote. What is the use of having the
people represented in County Convention?the County
Convention in the State, and the Slate in the National
Convention, but to remove the last chosen as
far away from the influence of the people. a> possible?
It is like the reflection of light?the shadow growing
less distinct by each i-uccessive operation, until Anally
it is destroyed altogether.
From the Trenton Emporium &c True Jtmerican.
MR. TYLER'S DEMOCRACY.
"Lrl a trie bt judged by Us /mir."
None will dispute a proposition like this, founded
in justice and right reason. By this alone, let us test
the Democracy of John Tyler. We object altogether,
as every independent and hone?t man, must do, to the
patent right arrogated by the dictator of the Globe,
of determining what is arid what is not Democrary
Who made him a Judge over Jsiael? Whence is his
title derived to dictate on this, or any other subject,
to the Democracy of this country? We demur to
Ins jurisdiction; we dispute his^claitns; we altogether
deny his title.. We would, indeed, were we disposed
to ndinit such a power in any man, be disposed to
seek for a de^iosilory in a very different person, from
turn, who exerted the most active agency in bringing
about in 1 Hi?4, the coalition between Mr. Adams and
Mr. Clay. The Democracy of this self-elected Dictaior,
is n t old enuuvh ; is not sutlicienily clear from
the strong suspicion of interested motives, to authorize
us to vest in him so vast a power. Nor has the
exercise of the influence (injudic ously given lum by
the confidence and patronage of former administrations)
been sufficiently wise and temperate, even
were his principles and motives sufficiently pure to
warrant any prudent person in delegating this or any
other power to him. The influence which the patronage
of Government and the support of the party
gave him, has not been so w i-n ly employed, as to in
?*pu? ruimuriM*? m mi wiM icinni, im niuuvc^, i?r ni"
political integrity. For lii(mn purpose*, and regaidlessof
tiif union and harmony of the partv, he
lias been for a long (line pist, devoting himself t>
the ino-t untneaiiired abuse of John Tyler, and the
portion of the Democratic party who sustain him
lu I. -> fi antic i lioi ts to destr* y them, he it tin* to have
los sight cntiia ly of that forni.dable opponent, tin
great head hi d leader of the \\ hies, (kit ovn rtin
fi, n ) and nil Ins power is solely einpl yed to break
down a strong and highly respectable divi-ion of iht
Democratic party.
But what are the true and infallible tests,,f I)rmocraey
? In what way shall we Irani Imw to judge o
John l')l> r1* democracy I'rolessn iis, we are, n*
ratcfied with. If wc were, we need go no further,
for lie emphatically ?o declares himself, and the Ins
tory ol his life attests it. Let us then, since we will
not take his woid, on this subject, let us look at ho
acts. Are they in conformity with his professions
These may he del, iinined in two different way*; by
the approbation of one party, and the disapprobnlioi
of the other. V\ hen these both are si cured in a
thorough and hearty manner, but more esper tally tin
bitter enmity of the latter, we can have no longn
doubts in regard to the niattf r. (tut further, who an
his friends, counsellors, and advisers- Are thry not
staunch Democrals* What is the political chacartel
at tin- persons appointed by him t<> oilier Are they
not genuine ihorour Ingoing and old lashi ?ned Demo
eralsr?the men who stood by Jackson when Krancn
I' ilia , of ttie Globe, Was negotiating the treaty u
1 lietween John l^niney Adams and Henry (. lav
Will then, here we have, ,i, r idenr, s of the 1).
noeraey ol John Tyler, h s pr f-ssions, an I the his
Lory o| his whole lite ? his Democratic measures?
particularly his veto of the Monster llank the darlirn
jlijcet of Whig allection? the approbation of tin
whole Democratic pirty m the Union (save only ilo
faction of the. Globe)?the most loiter and nitcrist
laired of the Whigs?Democratic friends, counsel
ors and adviser* and the decided Democratic cha
arler of all his appointees to office.
Let lis then conclude a? we began?let a tree In
lUdged by its fruKs.
A Forgkr ( ai uiit - Win. G Knight, a member
if the London bar, who absconded ill January, 1H41,
i id came to lhi< country, with a large >mount o
money, tie1 proceeds ol sundry forged bill- of ex
change which he sold in London, has been recent*
arrested in Iowa, by James Young, of the f'hi a del
ahia police. A suit was brought sgainst him in that
icrntory for twelve, thousand dollars, and judgment
ibtained lor tin- lull amount. I he whole amount ol
Lhc lingeries is ^ '7,0ntl Ninety-one of the forge
:nlls ot exchange utiered and passed by Knight, an
tn this country ??V 1 Tribune.
To Trrservr [heart, or to ]" rent if from moulding.
[tread that is kept in a damp place, or not used alter I
i heavy rain, is apt to collect a kind of moss or mould
I bis can l,e easily prevented hy mixing a small quart
ity of compli or arrowroot witli wheatrn Hour befort
lit- tloti^h i* ready for the oven. It i*alv> useful in
pieparing ?ea biscuit for loop voyage*.
Awomr* Moni mk.vt. The ntirein of Mrrrei
< uniy, New Jeivy, are talkmp of ereo.tinp a inonu
iit.nl to commemorate the battle of Trenton. 1
IION. JOHN B. WELLEB.
We were much graliued to learn mat this distinguished
gentleman rtipwiJed to Auditor Brough
tirade of abuse at the late Cincinnati Van Huren
meeting. Mr. Welter did not consider an honest
support of the President, in the discharge of bat arduous
and responsible duties, a? incompatible with a
hearty preference of Mr. Van Buren's claims in Jb44.
He had, as a member of Congress, witnessed the
difficulties the President had to encounter, and the
firmness and independence he displayed, when every
friend of the Democratic party?every friend of the
country was looking to him alone for the protection
of the Constitution. He had witnessed aud participated
in the joy which sp ontaneously burst from the
bo*om of every Democrat, when the veto was read,
which proclaimed the Constitution protected from
violence, and the people protected from the iron rod
ot a moneyed despotism. In view of such facts, he
could not set by and hear President Tyler abused.?
He repudiated the idea, that the democracy of those
who received office at th" hands of President Tyler, I
was therehy justly brought into question. Mr. Wei- I
ler merits the gratitude of the democratic party, lor I
his manly and disinterested defence ol the I'resideut, I
from the sellisli and MHgMOt attacks ol prcjcssed <!e- I
moerals. It is such men whether in iavor ol Van I
Buren, Buchanan, Caihoun, Johnson, or Cuss, who I
ire to save the d> inocralic parly from defeat tn 1844. I
?Old School Republican. I
CIIK1Sl l.\A G1LMOUK. I
Tiie followiug is the decision of Judge Betts, of I
the District Court of the United States, on the re- I
cent application for a writ of habeas corpus in the I
case of Mrs. Christina Gilrnour : I
In the matter of ( hristina Cochran, otherxciie Gi/mmir, I
on the application for the alloxcuuce of a writ of habeas I
I am of opinion that the Kith article of the treaty I
>f Washington, concluded August Uth, 1842, is, un- I
h'r the second suh-divbion of the sixth article of the I
Constitution of tlie United States, in force as a sub- I
sitting law of the land, and is accordingly to he oh- I
served and executed by the Judicial authorities of I
the country. I
I am of opinion that a Co appointed bjr I
a Circuit Court of the United StaiCTJYur.?uum uruio I
act of Congress io that behalf, is, by force of the act I
of Congress of August 23, 1842, empowered to per- I
form the I unctions pointed out by tiie J Oth al l ele of I
the said treaty. I
I arn of opinion that it is not competent for a Judge I
of the Uj itted States, in vacaliori, to revise o.i habeas I
corpus, the adjudication of such Commissioner as to I
the sufficiency of the proof of criminality of a party . I
charged before him. I
1 urn of opinion that a writ of habeas corpus cannot I
tie rightfully allow ed, lor the purpose of inquiring in- I
to the legality of a warrant emanating from the Exe- I
eutive branch of the Government, intended to sunen- I
d?r a person duly committed to a Marshal of the Urii- I
ted States to the authorities of Great Britain, under I
the provisions of the lOih article of the raid treaty, |
uciuru ine pany snaii De meriDy actually transierrea
to arid detained in such British custody within the I
United States. I
I accordingly refuse to allow the habeas corpus I
prayed for in this case. I
New York, Aug'.st 12th, 1843. I
Samuel R. Betts, U. S. Judge, &e. I
The New York Herald says that another demand I
under the treaty of Washington hat been m de for a B
man accused of some theft in Canada ; hut Mr. Com* B
missioner Kapeljea did not consider the case as one B
included in the catalogue of offences enumeiated in B
the treaty, and therefore he did not conceive he had H
any jurisdiction in the matter. H
Mr. Colman, the intelligent Representative of the H
Massachusetts Agricultural Society, attended there- H
cent meeting of the British Royal Agricultural Soci- H
e'y. at Derby. After a toast,?Agriculture, all over H
the world,"?he spoke. The report says ;
Mr. Colman, an American gentleman, rose to re- H
turn thanks. He felt most grateful for the welcome
which he had every where received froua Englishmen
since his arrival in this country. He fully
joined in the admiration that the exhibition of imple- H
ments had excited, hut he regretted that among them H
there was not one which would enable a man to make H
an etfeclive dinner spe&h. (A laugh.) He hoped H
that the eminent mechanics he saw round the table B
would hit upon some contrivance for the purpose. B
^Laughter ) He considered agriculture to be the B
foundation of all wealth, the great instrument of so- B
cial improvement, the conservator of public morals. B
(Cheers.) They could do without the doctors if they B
observed the rules of health ; they might do without I
lawyers if they kept their temper ; they might pos- I
sibly do without the clergy if every man would taka I
care of his own soul; and without the soldiers if they I
would only fulfil the great law of Christian charity ; I
k. L
i uu.. >i<- vuuiu iiui m now unnrr nraven me* couto do
' without the fmrmera (Mueh cheering and laughter.)
\Y as nol sgriculture the foundation and the produ
rer of wealth, while gold and silver were its inert
a, pounds' A man might live in Goiconda, and heap
up treasures as high a* the Andes, and still perish for
j hunger in the midat. (Hear, hear.) He would not
arrogate for agriculturists an extraordinary degree of
morality, but tins he would say, that there was nothing
in their occupation that had the least tendency
to deprave a man's morals. (Hear, hear, and cheers.)
Then, what could be more delightful as a recreation
for the philosophical mind? It was a subject in
which we might learn from all nations; we might
even learn a little from the Chinese. (Laughter.)
Gentlemen might laugh, but there were in the Chinese
language W7,000 treatises on sericulture. China
had for thousands of years subsisted on its agriculture,
and had contrived, besides, to accumulate immense
wealth, and therefore was entitled to some respect
a? an agricultural country. America was now
following the steps of her ancestor in improving her
agriculture ; and he hr ped that a desire lor improvement
in that and everything else would he the only
rivalry between lh?m Mr. Colman concluded by
proposing as a sentiment?" England, the miii ol civil,
ization ; may she long continue, like her own Ikldyslone,
a light in the ocean. Mav her light him not
to hum, but cherish?nol to render the w< rld des??latr,
but happy. May her energies be conccntra'ed
on those high objeets?the difTusn n of know ledge,
the extension of civilization, of libei ty, and of peace
(Such as near y as we could catch tin m, were .Mr.
Colman s words.)
Kxrr.niMEvrs at Sakov Hock?On Thursday last,
' one of Mr. Hubbell's thunder bombs, fired ny an b
pound cartridge Iroin a 3*2 p under gun, :il tins gnh'
practice station, exploded the instant ol impact, inidj
w.iv m a targrt the thickness of the side ol a I.tie of
, rattle ship, J03 yards distant, and t r<- <t in thou
s nit.* OJ | i i ? ?, mown oi U i ni J JU ! i I I. mil
In- target. A lien* weighing ljii |>< uniN ? as blown
60 feet distant The destruction extended ten feet
lengthways ol the timber* til" the target, a'>d a hoard
target laying n the ground 30 left dl-tanl. w as llso
luucli 'haltered to pic. is by it. Also, one i I llie W4'2
b. halls, was fired from the immense wrought uou
jun wilh great pre< i?ion?.V V Herald.
The New York correspondent of the Philadelphia
A met ican wr trs?
Jly an iriival from Cnrthngrnn, I learn that the L".
SI flip Vain,'alia was al ('fiacres on the 8th of July.
She I as been al Port Hnynl, J.nn , since Unvmg ti.e
I"ruled ? tates t orn Dallas and suite, S< th Sweet-it,
K-q II S. Consul at (iunyaquil, arid Lieutenant
F \V ii- sterol the I S. A., left Panama, Ju1 ti,
in a It nzili.in sclir of war, licnind to Callao ; (ieorge
ltrown,L-><j , L S. Commissioner to the Sandwich
Islands, also passenger hi the Vaudalia, Kit Panama
[ early in June in the Young Vindic.ive, tender, lor
i Otaheite.
The U. States ship \'ineennes was expected to ssil
from IVns.icola on the 10th inaiant, for \ era Cru/,, to
reerive a portion ol the Mexican indemnity, which
s he te.idv lor delivery at that nt? il.? u'.ti.
in?tant.
Tr.mPBR4vc i;. ? \V ith u view of j romoting the abolition
of intemperance t iroughout the world, a (central
convention is to tie held in lv.ndon, in June, 184?.
Frnm ihr If ?yn/ Standard.
We are gratified to find that most of the l>rtnocratic
journals view the course of that " most noble
t-Yvtiis," ttie editor of the Globe, in it- attack* upon
dr. I jl' t and Ins Cabinet, in the ?ame light as ourselves
Many ol these papers, honestly wishing the
success ol the. Democratic party, and have followed
n the wake of the Globe, aie satisfied of the folly
11 id fruiileseness of ?urh a course, nd have ahandnwd
it ; and we hope ere long that Hlair will come to
'lis sober senses, and desist Irom a course whirh inuii
necessarily result in confusion and defeat
('A BLNKI AproiNTMKNTS.
The r< cent a| pointmrnt* in tip Cabin*1 appear to
ruder general ?tttsfa"tion thri nghout the country,
ml particularly to the Democrat re part*.?/?*r*
Cd,j Rrpoitrr.