er.'i or., f.on i! e Vp.cavtvr.rdruors of! m for
v Ir m th • fe-ft was ma^ And vrt one
^r'«M think a grain nf pm :cnce cr decency
m:gh’ h-oe t ughr him that, whatever fpemi
tali ve n t'niii were, nod if even initi-ared in
the i« cic y of the Illuminati, l*is conduft w ould
be cn fued as unh corrirg the ofHCtf or a
chril ian nation ; that thou, h he regarded net
the law < f Ood, yvt he ought to regard the
law of hj; o untiy, and enforce it by a good
examp’e.
I bleb God that the people of America are
rsj. yet f* far contaminaeJ w *1 the AtheilL
ical pr'.ncip’es of the French, as to view the
tran acli n I blame with indifference, or think
the Sabbath an unneceHary inftitution. No,
th.y gerera'ly, confider it ** a moral and wile
inlicution, the obfervarce of which is intimate
^ ly connect'd with the peace and order of foc:
etv, as well as the fpiritual and eternal inter
efts of nie4* Their eyes are more and more
opened on this fubject by the awful miferies of
France, and they deprecate her fms, left they
should partake of her plagues. They efteern
: it a blelling that Providence hath given them
*i t this moment a Chid Mlgiftra’e who pro
f ifei the chrift’an r. ligion, and alorns it by
his example. Th y will be grieved and think
it inaufpicious to find an oppofite behavior in
any in whom they have repo cd confidence ;
tfpcci .lly at this j'tnrfture when war is waging
not only againft the rapine, but the abomina
ble principles of France.
CENSOR MORUM.
O* 7 he Printers in ti^Jnited States, who ivi/b
nieti to morality, and the projperity of their country,
•willpleafe to give p ace to tie above.
News from Europe.
Jl large portion of this day's Gazette is de
voted to Foreign News, received
by the latefl arrivals.
London, T"\UBLIN is declared out of
may 25. 1 3 the King's peace.
The 'ihage of Lacklan, in Ireland, is burnt
by the military. It conlilled of 27 ..oufes.
May 26.
Sir R. Strachan is bombarding the town of
Havrede Grace, and has lately deftroyed levs
ril gun boats.
It L fa*d the commandant of OflenJ was ar
reiled after the late a!Ta:r.
Soldieis are placed at free quarters in Dub
lin. They lately had an affray with the butch
ers, in which the latter were beat. Several
j erlons jull arr< Red tor treafon.
May 28.
The Irifh Ma'ls, which arrived on Sa'.mday,
brought a variety of intelligence of the utmoft
importance. The L' rd Lieutenant, on Tu f
day lalt, font a mcfTage to both houfes of pir
li. mcnt, Hating that information had been re
ceived bv hij Excellency, that the difafLclec
had been daring enough to form a plan to pc f.
fefs themfelves in thecourfc < f the prefent month,
of the Metropolis, and to fetze the feat of G v
ernrnenr, and thofe in authority within the city,
The Lords and commons, in confequence of
this me flag e, immediately entered into lb me loy
al Refutations, and each went up to tire CalUe
with an addrefs to the Lord I.itfutcnant ; the
la'tcr with the Speaker at their head, difplaying
•a laudable inllance of fage determination, by
walkir.g in procetli n the whoie of the way ;
through the mod populous fheets of the Me
tropolis.
Such is the abundance of money at prefer t
in the City, that one half of the whole amount
(f the loan i r the fetvice of the year his al
ready been paid into the bank by the fiibfl.ri
ters, although not more than two millions are
* et due.
The I; .fh Rebels have been defeated at Sag
gard and Naas. Several hundreds killed.
May zo.
The Dublin, Mai! of the 251b in ft. armed
ye terdav, by which we have received, r.ct on
ly a confirmation of the die adrul accounts given
in our la ft paper, but alfo forne important
details of feveral frefti actions which have taken !
place betwen the Mi itary and the Rebels in !
various directions—The rebellion is now open
Iv i'upj-Ofted in molt parts of the countries of
Dublin, Kild.irc, and Meath ; and even the
neighb> urhcod of the metropolis has been avail
ed by the daring infurgents. In f me inft ances,
thev have made a defperate relift mce ; but in
all they have been completely defeateJ with
immenfe (laughter,while hisMaej fly’s forces h ive
fuftained very little 1 fs. Near Dunboyne, the
Rebels, who captured the baggage of. two com
panies, guarded by a fmail pirty of the Reay
Fcnclble*, as ftated in our paper of y«ft rday,
remainingundifperfed cn the following day a
formidable army was fen: againft them who
happily fucceeded in putting the whole body to
flight. ,
Fifty of the Ele»ft:ons in France have been
annulled. Neither Tallien nor Merlin of Thi
1 uvide have been returned.
General Gr neir, fiys a Paris paper, is (hortly
to fail from Dunkirk with the troops deftined
rd for the iovafi, a of England. The corps
v h ch were hitherto in cantonments at Jit, O
ncr. Bethune, Arras, &c. have marched to the
coaft.
Abont twelve Engliiu privateers, fitted out
at Gibraltcr, having taken feveral valuable pri
zes amt.un ing in number to about 130, for
immediate fccurity, they were carried into Mal
ta.
The
■WJ£u!.2
‘s Directory jollify the'r ccn
duct in ti c recent regoJar'nn with America, by
dtc! *.ri 15 it to be thc r wfli to revive die gotten
;itrA hi France.
Mby 31.
By tl'-e Dublin M«H of the ?6th we have re
ceived accounts of fevcral f-e'.h anions having
been fought between the uvlit.iry and the ir.fur
gents, in the whole of which hb hi ijefty’s f roes
• iuv. completely triumphed. The rcbel'ion has
extended its influence into the counties of Week
low and Carlow ; lb that there aie now five
conmitsinan open flats of infurrcclion. The
official details of two of the engagement-!,
which took place ‘at llackctf. nvn in die county
of Carlow, and at Baltinglafs, in the county ot
Wkklow, ftate that the rebels loll in the fi *mer
three hundred men, and in the latter hetween
one and two hundred. ILtiles have aTo been
fought at Clare, BalHmor, {Hrretftdwn, Lucan,
and Lufk, which terminated in a fimiiar man
ncr. The rebels have burnt the town of Kilcul*
len, & deflroyed a great part of the rcfpeviable
! city of Carlow, at wh:ch place ad eaJlul conflict
took pi re, the refult of which was, th t four
hundred of the mifguded wretches were flain,
O' er whole mangled carcafes the travelers from
Dublin to the fou hwarJ, were for a whole day
obliged to pafs. Such is ’he frightful picture
which our intelligence ot ydterduy piefents to
cur view.
June 1.
The Gazet'e, enables us to lay before our
readers a difpatch from the Lord Lieutenant,
dated the 27th ult. containing an accoui t of
i fome further advantages obtained on the pre
ceding day over the rebels at Taragh Hill, about
ten miles north of the metroprlis, where they
appeared in great numbers. Fir fome time
they refilled the attack of three companie, cf
the Reay Fencib’es and feveral troops’of yeo
manry, but they were at leng'h obliged to fly
in all directions, leaving three hundred and fifty
dead upon the field. No prifoners.
June 4.
Hie official intelligence lrom Ireland lince
our lad publication m fome meafure aafweri
cur expectation and gratifies our hopes; A nu
merous body of rebels aiiemblcd on the Curragh
of Ivildar, amounting to 4000 have laid down
their arms and given up a number of their
leaders ; that the communication between Dub
lin and Limerick, which hal been cut off by
the -inf rgents has been reftored ; and that Sir
James Duff has retaken the town of Kildare,
and killed between two and three hundred of
the infurgents who had poiTUTIqn of that place,
with the lofs of three men killed and fe\en
wounded. The Gazette adds that “the S uth
i- entirely' quiet.” We are forry, however,
our letters from that quarter do not aJm t us
to fubferibe to this lad afFrtion. The rebels,
we ate on the contrary nflured,are dill in great
force in the county of Wexford ; and at a late
hour lad night we were informed that a large
detachment of the 13th regiment of foot had
been cut off by the infurgenis, who to the
amount rf near 7000 men, were in pnffeflion of
the city of Wexford and its neighborhood.
June 6.
Gen. Fawcett having marched from Dunca
non fort, with a company of the Mc3’h regi
ment, w >s fhrrounded by a very large body
between Twgbmon and Wexford, and defeated.
The General effected his retreat to the Fort.
The town of Newtown Barry was attacked
the id ird. by the rebels. They furrounded it
1 in fuch a manner thnt Col. L’Eftrange at fird
; retreated in order to collect his force. H^then
attacked them and drove them from the town
w ith great daughter, and purfed them "fever.il
miles. 500 of the rebels were killed. The
colonel’s whole force was about 330.
^etferday’s Iriih mads brought news to June
j 2. The rebels appear to derive military in
I ftruCiion from their frequent difaders. In the
j north of Ireland too, which has affe&ed much
loyalty, fuch feiious indications of revolt have
appealed that Martial law is declared there.
This was done at Belfad on Sunday lad.
It is feared the Toulon iltet has eluded the
vigilance of Admiral Nellon. [U'c think our
accounts via Gibrghcr and Nevuyork, later than
ary from the Sir eights in London at the above date
Nelfon VJas (ff Toulon the beginning of June. J
June 8.
1 he rebels to the amount of 15000 are er.
camped on the mountain of Forth, fituated near
the fca, about ten miles from Wexford, fo ad
vantageoufly as will require a great military
force to diflodge them
Auother account dates that the rebels have
been driven from Wexford with the lofs of 900
men, but that the King’s troops lnd alio expe
rienced gre.’t lofs, the pikes of the infurgents
(14 feet in length) preventing the effectual ufe
of the bayonet.
I he lofs of the Trifh Yeomanry Pmce the
commencement ot the Rebellion is computed at
500.—The total number of Rebel* killed is da
ted at 5000.
Capt. Moor of Rathangan, having drawn
oat his company to engage the Rcvo’.ters, his
Lt. cried he would not fight again‘1 his fellow
citizen*. “ Nor I !” “ Nor I !” ran through
the corps, vhen they mafTtcrcd their Captain
and flcJ to the Infurgents.
A fellow a, preheuded at DuMin, has confef
fed concern in a plan for burning the PaiTu
ment houj'e ; and that he fired the Hcufe cf
Commons, a few yea s fince
I ^ Abe Hydra frigate of 38 guns has driven a
| breach frigate, and two corvette* on fhore near
Havre, i he iiijitc was Ft on tire and aban
doned.
It is probab’e the *I\ u’on fl.et is bound for
the S. W. of Ireland.
Letters from Lfbac, fay Nclfon his again
Tt»
V
inccnts, which being nlf>j»*m
joined Earl St. — .
ed by Curtifs conduc'd 32 1 dl of the line u-L,‘
which he was determined *0 go in pinfct ff
\hc Tow-on fleet, leaving a fmatl Fjuaarcn <•
watch Cadiz. # * .
Notwithflanding all caution in acqnamLtag
Lady Fitzgerald, with the death of her h^fband,
fhe ftinted, and when recoveied from that ii'j
fed into a delirium.
Jure 9.
Mr. Bacon, a Tailor, elected Major Gen. of
the Revohers bus been arreftnd and Was hang
ed on M nday laII. Martial Law is declared
in Limerick ; andlrifh affairs are daily more
portentous. Ail troops, which can be fpnred
from other parts, are marching to the infurg nt
countri..s of Weiford, Car low and Wicklow ;
but the difaffefted flate of the North, neccffl
ra’cs the leaving many troops there, there
fore 10,000 men aie inftant y to go from En
gland.
It is reported a whole corps of yeomanry
(loyal Iulli) is difarmed in Dublin. Having
b;en diicovered in league with the rebels.
The Rebels in W xford pnffeflrg both bays
and harbours, it Is thought they have alien y
received tome aid from France. M hey ho.d
Ennifcorthy, a very populous town.
Troops, it is la d, are about failing from
Newcaftlc, PI) mouth, Liverpool, See. for lie
land. ,
Secretary Dundas, is affli-fled with a fit rf
the* palfy.
The French are preparing for an immediate
defeenr on the ifland ol Alderney.
The perfon who revealed the whole plan of
the Irilh conffiricy to government ariived in
town yefterday from Dublin. He is come tc
reticle in England on a penficn of 300b p.r anu
It is faid the French have commenced hollile
operat:om again ft Portugal by land.
A fin.tl trea'y of peace is concluded between
France and Naples.
Government have ordered Lady Fitzgerald
to leave the country. She is going to Ham
burg.
DUBLIN, MAY 3!.
M’Oonn, j*n Apothecary, is apprehended ;
and his apprentice d p i'es, th *t he hus withir.
a Jew days fold above a thoufand ounces t f
arfenic to various perf ms, who were fervants.
Yefterday died of Lis wounds, Captain D F.
Ilyan, the officer who arrefted Lt. F tugerald.
An old lady, aged ninety feven, has been
murdered by the infur*cut$ at Bally more.
JUNE 2.
Among the rebels near Nirragrsore, was an
Amazonian leader. bhe tired two fhot at the
1 Col. of ih* regular troops. She is taken ; but
the treafon ail cannot well be literally put in
: force aeainft her.
The Toulon fleet has no horfes on beard. It
. has fiddles and bridles and orders to procure
horfes at the place of their debarkation.
JU1E 4.
It if faid a large body of rebel have been dc
fca ed at Gorec (Wexford county) and 140
killed.
Lt. Clinch of the ‘nrantry was executed m
Saturday. He confeifed Iris cr me, vij. con
fpiring to murder his captain and defers with
tire company to tire rebel'-.
All refpeilable families that can ar: em' a»k
ing for England with all (peed.
This morning in the new prifoo, L~rd E tz
gera’d died. He fell into frequent p.froxifrrs
cf rage, which with his wounds produced a fe
ver, th it caui'ed his ex t.
News is juft received of an a«ft!on at Bully :a
new, in which coorebe’s were llain.
La ft night dilchargcs of cannon were heard
in the direction of Kiko< k.
WATERFORD, MAY 29.
Letters from Dublin (Ire, that amongft he
papers ot one of the perfons ch ;ed with fei
lon, the intended revolutionary ieal of Ireland
h is been found : It bears the elTigv of Hibernia
riling up, and linking the Crown fiom ot7 the
Harp : A drefs for one of the intended D rcc
ws is likewife dated to huve been difcovereJ.
Four coffins full of pikes have been found in
Werbeg’s Chu ch yard, Dublin, ten in the
Hofpital Fields, fcveral thoufand in St. Mich
aels Church ftreet, Denmatk ftreet, Chapel, and
Lazor’s hill ; and at a chandler’s fevetal hun
dreJ pikes in boxes, covered w.tu tallow.
Duel between Pitt and Tierney.
Mr. PITT, on the 25th May, in die Biitifh
Parli iment, propofed a bill lor the. better fopply
ing T- Navy with men in the prd'c it cxigen
cy ; and recommend the lufbcnfion of aH exem
dons and protections, for this purpofe. Mr.
Tierney oppofed the meafure. and refl.Cled on
Mr. Pitt as frequently i ifraftln j the liSertiei ot
Britiih fuhjeCb. Mr. Pitt urged the adoption
of the Bill, commented on Mr. Ti-rney’t
Speech, and charge i his oppolilion, “ as f>,to
ceedin* frum a nxijh to impede the fervicc of the
county.** Mr. li m y called to erdtr. The
Speaker laivl, if the words weie defigned as a
perfonal reflection they were unparliamentary &
difrderly. Mr. Pat was dc-Ired to explain.—
lie ref fed to expla'n or retract. This was on
Tri.'ay. On Saturday he received a chalhnge
from Mr. Tierney, which lie accepted. On
Sunday they met with the r fetonds. An in
terchange of ftiot was made, and the phlols
reloaded—when, after Receiving Mr. i s* f:Cond
foe, Mr, P. difeharged his-ha 1 in the ai . The
fe.onds then interpofed, and infilled th it as am
ple falisfa&ioh h 1 dhe*m yiv m—the affair Dr uid
be compromiled. No fcrlms notice hai been
tat,; n t>l tins hu.ini-« in parl*am°nt. *
Mr. K«*’fcomd Mr. Kjrdlr, anJ Mr.
1 lerney a Mr. \ v alpole.
THEGAZETTE?
Portiar.d. "1
Articles by the lajl AlaiL I
Political Prospects.
Our recent advices from Europe, afford *
agoodbafis to hpe that a new combination d
the potency of the regular governments is f0!Bj.
ing or formed. Time wa«, and that not Ionj
ffnce, when v.*e thought a coalition again!
France an impious confpiracy of libertij
cides ; bilt our opinion is perfectly changedJ
Liberty is in danger only from France. 7^
huge monger of defpotTm, who besides th«
country, fludes from our view the letfer demon*
< f opprefflon who were dice difcemible ia fo®.
other Europe in n .tior.s. A coalition again}
France, if a 1.ague in cur favor. Though wt
firmly believe the United States fully comr*.
tent to tjie complete defence of their territory,
yet an extenlive commerce and lucrative fifte
rie;, ccnnetfed with which are our agriculture
and mantifaflures, would derive infinite fecti.
ri y from the European raval powers. BefuJet,
the more (Length that is united againfl the
t rench nation, the fooner will \he olive-branch
jf peace be refecn in the world.
Ine London papers by the June packet,anj
thcfe cf the oppofition caft (which would, there,
fore, only on ernvidion of the fad, announce
my iniellige ce favorable to the wiflies of the
fcritifi admini.lration) a fTure us, that the French
Como.ifllt iters t Rafladt, have demanded certain
jurifdid'on on the German fide of the Rhine—
and the demolition of the fortifications atEhren.
breitflem ; a iding irfolen’ly that fufHciem time
hai been exhaufted in temporizing ; and inti
mating that a fpeedy compliance with tin’s de.
mand was expected. In the mean time, to aid
the "freedom of dslaUf 30,000 French troopj
were ordered to march from the fea coaft
where the) had been placed to be ready foraa
important expedition to the banks of ihe Rhine,
and pofled as near as poffible to Rafladt. The
language of the demand &the iubfequent miliu
ry mealure, warrants an opinion that this French
pr. pofal was meant as an ultimatum ; and
fo the Germ ms received it; for the troopj
on their frontiers were immediately augmented
and convention and preparation intimate ap.
preaching hoflil'tics. The German Comm:f
boners in the CongrcL rejeded the French pro
pofnion with difdain. Many of them expreflinj
thcmfelves with a warmth which fame believe^
in the terrii'e republic, would chiiilen / - rf
Or.c blerved, that no German whofc blood was
not chilled in his veins, could hear of thtle ra
pacious demands without nflantly reJJeirinr
widi auger. Among thofe rno i fer- a .t y o|W
poled to a compliance vs ;h Fre ch cx idiom
wras the P.uilian Delegate, w: o undeubtcdif
nieiiiy 0ucy?u nis inliriKtioris* A counterprcjttf
as atlfngof ccurfc, was offered, \ hich Hi u.
lites, that the divlfioual line between Cermarj
and Trance Hull be the center ot' tie Rhine,
tiie ifl.tndj in each refpeflive half to appertain
to thefovereign of fuel* half, and refutes poll
lively to dclir v ti e f, rtrefs cf EhreiibrcitfteiD,
It is hardly to be iuppofed that the French,
recently accuftomed tualE undieceivc, i: fdatei
■vi h n opinion th it they are omnip tent, anl
piciidi) a; c\ing themklves above the reach d
misfortune, will conk-it to terns proofed bj
another power—and bear tie rejection tf the*
: Uvorite fcheme.
j I' may be concluded th.at this turn of affaflfl
w:s forefecn, and arrangements made to
it : For the: Uft occurrences had fcarcely taktf
place e:c wc find the emperor of Ruflla, whoi
hasforfome time been expose 1 would be®
principal member of a iecond coalition ifitv^
formed, equipping the largeft fleet of gallej
wh ch has ever hen fent to k t by that nat'oA
and lending out a numerous fquadron of (b«?®
'if the lire. This ’Rte'd ger.c? we find in
la e Lou .on papers, and ;x is Tally c nuriucJ bj
the iol owing Important
NFAVS FROM RUSSIA,
received by Capt. Smith, who arrived on tb
evufi g of the 8 h imhr.r, her a jm 1 -e of 1
■i ivs from St. P.tcrfbur-. Hr IrSo m»