macmUMl iHnr.tL'nmi- mrm
to volo UnUurstandinaiv Uti'un thom. 110 cnllcd
upon mcmbors of ull Bitlcs to ogreo to iho pnnting
ol tlio rcsolutions : but ho wmb answcrod by cries
of " No ! No l" from iho discinlined and tutored
truin-bunds.
Tho motiun to nr'ult nt tllls stnco requiring gtm
.rlnnna..l n...l !.,;., rr.ru j,wl llllllllllL' N nS
loft to Mr but to usk un ndjniiriimout, to
fivn timn for oxiimliiina tlm resolutions.
Tho motion was hist ; uid tlio tnain qustion was
1 1 i. ....1
Tbu qucstion thon rocurring nn thu. ndojituin ol
tho first resolution oftho sorins, Mr Chriatopher
Tnnrmsnii nun. Olld IISKPll to 00 OX
cuscd from volitif;, on tlio giound ihnt ho could uut
judg pioporly of tho purpnrt ol tho rosolutions,
which wero comiucted vviili priueiploa nflHoting
,)! !) inicresis ol his ooiisiitiienla. llu was
M iJ J IJ w
notuxeiised, howuvor.
Mr Wui. Cost Johnson miw iiilorposcd witli
nnothor motion fcr udjouriunonl whioh wns
lost.
Mr Stanlu rose. and askod to bo nxoiirted, nnd
cluimed his right under llio 30th rulo of llio Uouse,
to assitMi rcasons lor tlio rr.niiost. Mr siuim , now
cver, wua so aharp and scorohing npon llio inolivos
of tlio actora 111 tliia piot nnu tnuir urrangiMiioms,
tliat lie wns repoatedly interrnptcd by crius of ord
or. Uo did uut sitdown, howovor, without K-lliiig
tho Speakcr boldly, tliat ho knuw bo vvould noi be
pcrmitted tn go on " You, sir, (ho exelairnod) I
know, would, in obodionco to tbo edir.ts ol tho
Palace, provut mo !''
Mr Undcrwnod, nlso inkrd to bo excusod from
votlng, on tho ground tbut 011 whntovcr sido ho yo
tod ho would bo placnd in n falso position. lio
was proceoding to expluin this position ; but was
cut short by tlio Hpoakur, baeked by tbo voico uf
tho " Iltirrnii fioys" oftho party, who are etnplny
ed to crv " ordi-r ordor .'" for tho purposu uf si
lonoinglndependont niembnrs.
Mr VViso thcn look tlio floor ugain. Uo could
not bo uut down. Out so ntimorouawi'fo tho in
tcrruptions, anl so great tho confuston in tho llall
tliat 1 could not distinctly huar hiin ; nnd, thoro
foie, wil'l not, in juslico to bim, attoinpt any ab
stract of liis rcinarks. llo okcd to bo cxcuscd ;
but, whothur exrusod or not, ho poremptorily rn
fused to voto, Mo wns not uxcusud ofoourso.
Tho qiication wns thun lakon on iho first nsolu
tion ; and cairiud oyos, 1JS m:sti.
Tho Houso immodiatoly attorw ird ailjourncd.
Doc I2ih,
Tho Houso ofReprcsontativus hna bcon occupicd
ngain durin"- tlio wholoday with thc rc3olution in
rulntion to Abolition, Slavrry, !tc. &c. which
wore oflored ycslcrday by Mr Athorioit, as tho
moiith picco of tr.e 01111011-.
As soon as tho journal was road, Mr Jt'ist rose,
nml movod to coriuct it, ly inaking it ahow that ho
positis'cly refused to voto yestorday on tbo rcsolu
tion. llo.deniod ontiroly tho jurisdiotion of Con
gross over any part of the aubjHct ; and he wihhcd
lii.- dcchiration rcnordiid.
Tho IIouso rofuscd lo perinit iho journal to he
correr.tod. Uut Mr VVir, by lus incro motion was
inst-rted, and llio utiocl was llio snme.
Tho socond resolution ol tho scries wns tlicn
tuken up.
Mr IHddlt roso and aked to ba oxcused from
Yoting, and wishud to nvuil hiinscll of his privi
lrgotoassign rcusons thercforo, which woro per
ronal and poculiar to himsclf. Ilo suiil tbat, dur
ing the canvass in Ponnsylvania, ccrtain intcroga
tories woro propouudod to bim as a caudiJato ;
and was prncceding to statc lus nnswcr,
when ho was Dcrcinntofilv called to ordnr by tbo
Speakcr on tho ground tliat he could not bo pcr
mittcd to make dncctly or indirectly an ni"iiment
nn thc qucstion. Mr IHddltt, ufter sovcinl uiipuc
cessful uflbrts to "ivo tbo ronsons which opcratcd
upon bim imlividually, flnding thai ho was not por
imttC'd lo cxplnin, tooli hie et.'iit with an nppcat 10
tho uicmbors as ingonous and honorablo mon, not
him to voto for propositiorw which, it was uianilcst,
woro merely mtonileil lor roi.tTicxi. eitect in tiif.
South.
Mr Biddlc's rtqucst was, ofcoursc, refused flat-
'y. . .
I ho Clork piviceednl to call tho ayes nnii nors
on tho Rccond resolution. Mr W'iso refust(i to
vote; nnddemandpd that his refusal in thisinstanco
bo noticed on tho journal, as part ofth day'a pro-
ccodings.
Mr Cushing insistod that iho Clcrk ougbt not to
proceod in tho call, until Mr If'ifc votcil, or tho
IIouso ciciciscd its antboriiy, uud ouforccd tho
rulo which requircd ovory lntimbcr to votc, nnlcss
jpecinlly cxcuscd.
Tlio Speaker docicod tliat a mcmbor's refusal to
voto, cnuhl not bo perrnittod to nrrest tho douision
of iho IIouso on aquostiou beforo it , nnd diroutud
tbo Clork lo go on with tho cull.
Tlio qucation was thon takon nn the adoption of
tho Booond resolution, ns abovo, and decidcd in tho
oflirmativo ; Ayos 136, Nays45.
Tho third resolution of tho snrica wns tben con
lidorcd. Mr Dond of Ohio, rnnvrd to divido it, and tnko
tho quoslion on the first brancli, namoly, "Rcsnlv
ed, that Congross has no right to do that indirectly ,
which it cannot do direlly."
Gcntral Thompson of South Carolina, nskcd to
bo cxcuscd from voting on tho resolution, nnd stat
ed his roasons. No voto would oxpress his roal o-
fiinions. Wiiilo it positivcly nssortcd what ho bo
ieved to ho truo, that Congross had no right to a
bolisli slavcry in iho District of Columbiii. with n
viovv to abolish it in tho Statcs, ityct impliod by
slrongest ncgative ptcgtiant Congrr.ss has tho
powor to abolish slavery in this District, if it ia
not dono with a view to abolition in tho Statcs.
Now this Inst proposition bo dcnicd. Ilo main
tainod tho brond ground that Congross had no right
to touch tho aubjcctevon in tho District of Colum
bin. Gcn. Thompson was not cxcuscd.
Tho fiist branch of tbo rosolutinn was thon u
.donted, Ayos 173, Nays 30.
JSlr Garlaml now mado an appeal to tho courto
sy of the Uouse, which ought to havo boon favora
bly iccuived. 'Ilo wished tho resolution to bo
alighlly modificd. No ! No !" shoutod tho noisy
iorgansof tho Caucus. Tho qucstion was thon m-j'-Icon
qn ho Jnst brnnch of tho 3d resolution, and
. carried ,in iho nffirmativo, Ayes 164, Nays 39.
Tho fourjji resolution was tlien tnken up.
MV Lincoln of Mssnchusotts, calJoii for , divia
ton of this. The .first proposition in it, ho jtistly
said. assortod a naloublo nnd notoiiouB falsehood.
Tho second had no connoxion wliatovcr with tho
first.
Tho Chair docidod that tho resolution was sua
ccptiblo of division ; nnd acoordingly tho quoslion
was takon on tha first branch, ondina nt tho word
Confodoracy" und was carried, Ayes 180, Nays
52b.
Tlio quostion now rccurrsd on tho second branch
to which, ns n boaulilul picco of English coinposi-
tion, 1 woulu asl; tlio pnrticular ntteution ot vnur
roaders
" And frosolvod) tliat Uonjrross, tn tlio oxcrciso
of its acknovvledcod nowors, has no right to dis
criminato botwoon the institulions of ono portion of
tbo Statcs and anothcr, with a vtow ol nuolislnn
thconc, nnd protnoting the other."
M r Jokn P. Kennedu aB kod whotbcr it wua in
. ordor to corrcot n srammaticnl orror ?
Tho Spoakor, who, to his other qualifioations for
nrnsidinsovortho " Asscmbled Wisdtim," ndds a
ioioblo disrcgard for llio nntiquntod rulos of Lindlcy
Jtfurrny, ropliud that Buch u motion wns quito out
of ordor.
" Thon, rophed Mr Kenntdij, " protcstmg a
gainstlho grammar, I cannot voto upon tho resolu
tion." Tho proposition. with all its fjults ofgram-
mar, waa swallowed down by thcae illuminati of
tfu literatt J
Tho last resolution was dividod als6.
Jfr Wibs jnoposed to inodify it by striking put in
.i... ar.u din wnril.-i "with tho viewa aforosaid "
ll... UM.I:nr nrlinoiHll't'd tllll mOt'lOn tO bo OUt of
ordor of courao ! Nothing was regular but to
riwullow tho rcsolutions vvholo aa thoy ciuno from
tho couibination of Nortborn nnd Southuin Loco
Focos. Mr Wiso ngain deiiounced tho wholo pio-oet-diug
sa plat on iho South.
Tho liratbruiich ol tho resolution, ending vvith
tho words juiisdiction of Congiess," waa iulopt
od, Ayes l ld, Nays5i2. iA tho qjoslion reour
ring on llio passugo ol'iho last olauso asgivcn abovo
Mr 1'otts of l'onnsylvania, moved to lay it on tho
tablo, which wns rcjuctud, Ayos 85, Nuys UJ.
It was then ndopled by a voto of to 70.
So tho vvholo suries ofreaolulions was iigruiid lo :
und will be ncted upon as tho ordor of tho Hoiito ;
nnd, nccordiiigly all momorials, putitions, nnd jitlicr
pupera ich.ting lo Slavory in tiny matior, will uo
'on ignnd to the "Tomb of tho C.ipu loU, thoro to
I,., i..?,lii..rl,..,l C.i- tlu romaiiidur of llns seision nt
loaat.
Doo. 13th, 1838
The Soi.Ato Ch'iiiibcr was a ibeatro ofgteal at
traot.on today. At this uarly peru.d of tho sos
sion.iho proco.-dingsa.o ....ually lor.nal nnd duM,
but I havo inst roturncd from tho Capilol, nlter lis
toni.ig toaadebnto of groat aui.nation, i.t.;rest, nnd
iinpnrtuiicu. Tho .ubjuct was tho lostp0.oMnenl ol
the Fourth Instalment ofDoposites with tlio Sstates;
l.iil tho discussion took a wido range ; and soveral
of tho inost distiiiguisbed spoakorH whogtvo luslro
and digniiy to tho Senato, as thi.y would to any
Lcsiblativo hody io thu world, pai ticipatud in u.
Mr U'ii"hl lioin tho Commiiti'o on Fiii'inco, ln
troduccd ifbill Vi pohiioi.o the f-uith iiihtalment o
dt'posites with lio- si.il- s uiinl lliu lurincr aciion oi
Congross. 1I iihlcud iho iiiiinudiaiu foiiS'di:ralion
of the bill, whii h wasiigiuod to. Itw,nri-ad a
first nnd Ft-eoud tunu ; und tho quPHliou luuiig iut
I ..... L I - I.. .-
on ordoniiy it to Uo oiigrusM'u nr a unro nmin-K,
Mr Clny of Kenlurky rose, und di'ohired liiuifolt
opposeil to an htdiftnile pnstpniioiuent. Ilo l.iugli-
ingly toiu n iigui lliere was somoim. y Mc.isimi m
hohling out llio promtbii thai w hat tho Stati s had
a right io oxpect, tnoy would nl sonio iinie iiicuivo
Ilo was lor nauiing a st.ituil poriod, and, acoording
ly moved as an aniondni'jnt, to postpnno iho pay
mcnt to thu 1st of January, lcS40 .
Mr l('riht oppood iho anusndmenl, and insistod
on his original motion Uo had Irumcd thu bill
in referunro lo the exibit llio Secret.iry had mado
of llio condition of tho Treasury. I liutahowed it
was inipossihlo to pay tho inslulmont, wlion due,
in 183!) ; und thoro was no reason to bolicvo it
could bo paid in 1S40. Tho Secrutary's anticipa
tions of tho rcsouroos of tho govcrnuient woro all
ngaiust such an assumption.
Alr Clat, in reply,suid it was undoulilodly truo
that Iho Treasury was m a vory low condition
rho defalcations that hayo alrendy como to Iight
and ihoso wh'n h may bo exp ct d '.o appear,ronder
ed it vorv dilHouit to say what ongagtiincut of the
rrensui v cun bo kon t. Still. ho wished to seo
tho govcrnuient inanilesting a disposilion tofulfilits
proinisus to koep its jib.dgfs lo securo to tho
puopio wtint llicy tuui ni igui io uxpuvi.
Alr Cnihoun said ho would go lor tho aniondme nt
of Mr Clny. Uo did not, bowover, regard tho do
posito uot as, in any tnauner, croating u pledgo on
part of thc govcrumunt to llio Statcs. Uo lookecl
upon it merely asa moasuro of e.xpedloncy and pol
icy, to get nd ofagrcat and inessing ovil, an un
wiedly svtplus. Uo tliouglit, too, that tho propo
sition of'Mr Clny, was calculated to havo a lavora
blo cflect upon tho reduction oftho public cxpondi
turcs, and lo enforc.o on tho paitof tbo adinislra
lion nnd its fricnds, a inoro ngid regaid to econo
my. Mr JS'ilcs of Connecticut, then look tho floor.
Peoplo in the galluries mako it a point not to liaton
to bim excepi for purposos of fun.
Thomas II. Bcnton iullowed ;n a characteristic
speech, rodolont all over of his oonceit that he is,
in tho words of Powcr's song, " fl jatiius from top
Mr Preston spokc with his accustomcd cloquonce
nnd nower. II o rccarded tho Doposit Act as a do-
cnnlion on tho neonio. o.xeciited as it had been ; &
wialicd theni to bo decnived no longor. II it was
notintendud to pny tho lnstalmcnt which tho States
had beon led to uxpcct, it ought to bo declared. A
proposition ought to bo biought forward for thc cn
tirerrpeal of tho Act. Ilo would go for that ; but
if it was notnssentcd to, thon he would support tho
:iincndmcnt ol M r Lltiy.
Mr T,tHmtd''c dplended tho Depositc Act with
great spirit nnd lorco, r.nd cspccially vindicnted it
Irom thochargo of having beon produclivo of inju
ry to tho country und tho cnuso of tho lato cxplos-
lon in monctary allairs. lio coinmeiueo, wim
groat pungonoy, un tho oxtravagaui apiropriations
rucoinmondcd by tho XVI issutirt fconator, aiui uepiui-
cd thc cousequcncrs which would intivitably havo
fidlowed had thcv been nastd. Mr T. suppouud
Mr Clay's amendtiient.
ilr Uulwun spoko n second tnne, anu in uiu
courso ol lus tew romorus lio aumiliisioreo, winn
could not havo beon very plo asant lo somo of his
now allios, a robuko to tlieso who iiau oeun so
loiicl anl uarnesi iii decrying thc Deposite Act. uc
mmntaiiicd thnt muasiire was higlilv boneflcial ; as
thrnugh its insiriinicntality tho nutlon had got rid
of ono cvii of tho most opprcssivo oharacter thc
Surplvs. Uo attribulctl that Surplus, and all tho
ovil which had llowcd from it, primarily, to tho
Tarifi'oflS'Jl, and 1823.
Mr CVfiv cnntrovcrtcd. wuh groat powcr oi ar-
gument, theso assuiiiptions Uo mauilained that
tho Surplus had beon, in groat measuio, prodiiccd
by tlio spint ol Bnocui..tion, wtncli was exciicu oy
tlio Govcinmeut itsolf urging tho Doposito IJanks
to lund iho nubliu monev lreelv. and by its oonso-
quoni lavish us6 by fiivoritos and advcntures ; und
that lus liili to (listriuiuo tno procoeusoi ino shius
of public lamls would, of ilsolf, havo bnon sullic
ient to provent it. Uo oinphatically denied that ho
liud cver been in favor of any system of ruising
inoney for pnr)oscs of ditributinn.
Witli rcan to thc navinont ot tno iMiurin in-
stnliiip.ntr lio conteuded. lli.it. if a ricid syslein of
cconomy was adopted, and adbered lo, thero would
bo no dilhculty. Kedneo your oxpcnuiiures (,ex
claimcd h") not to tbo ainount under tho ixtiavu-
riint Adniinistrntion ot Join Q,.JMams, when tnov
wero only thirtocn millions ; but tako fiftccn mil
tions ston tho luaks correct your sub-troasiircrs
who aro running away in ovory dirnction und thon
this instalmont may bo oasily paid oti llio first of
January 1840.
Mr Uivcs spoko in a mannor worthy ofu states-
mnn and a patriot in vindication of tho Doposito
Act. nnd support ol iIr Ciay a auicndment.
Aflnr a fuw ohserviitions lroin Mr ISroxcn of
North Cnrolina, tho furthor considorotion of tho
nili wim nostooned lill Mondav noxt to which
litno llio Sonnto adjourncd.
finTISR OF ItEPRESENTATIVES.
Mr ' Jldums ofi'erud thu following resolution,
which tha IIouso deoliniiiing to recoivc, ho movod
nsuspension of tho ruius, anu usuuu ior uiu yi
and nays, which wer:? ordercd. Tho following
licsolvcd, That tho powers of ihis Houso boing
conforred by tho Constitution of tho United btatos
no resolution can add lo or doduct from that pow
or.
The motion to suspend was lost ; ayes 75, nocs
124.
Mr Calhoun. of Kontuckv. nkod lonvo to ofter
two rcsolutions upon llio subicct of Slavery ofu
praciicol chaructor, and not, ho said, upon tho ab
stract propositions which had beon considored.
Tho House rofusad to rccoivo his rcsolutions.
Mr IVise askod leavo to oflcr sovoral resolutions
upon Iho sobject of Slavory, whicli wero rond. la
said ho olTorcd thomas oxprossini; tho oninions of
himsolf and como of his c.olloagucs. Uo hopcd
tho Houso would roceivo thoin, nnd ho picdged
himsolf not to debato thom if they wero rcceivod.
Mr Riecs. of Va. obfoctod to tho reccption.
Mr rt'is'e wasiurprised that tho objection shoijld
como fiom a collouguo, und moved to suspen,d tho
riuca. iio asucu ior mo uvuo unu uuua,
i ,t i. t i . . . i .......
which
wore ordorod. Tho motion wns lost.
Mr Slailr., nT Vl. thun askod lenvo lo bring in n
sot of resolulions. Requost not grantod.
Mr Hcece was then olecled Chaplain by n vivti
voco 108 votoa cnst,of whicli Mr It. rcceivod 100
votes.
Ilero hhull tho Pross iho Puoplo's rights jnaintain,
tho I'ross tno ruopio s rigius maiiita
iufiuunco and uribribcd by gain
it Truth lior glorious pri'copts draw,
Iloligion, Idborty, and Law.
unawcci ny i
Ilio-n rintriot
Pledgcd to Iloligi
TUESDAY DEU R M H E U 25 , 1 838.
THE PENNSYLVANIA 1UOTS.
Wo wish to call tho altention of our roaders to
tho impoi tant considorationa connncled with this
unhapiy oontroversy. For ought wo know, it
may turn out that tho Whig uicmbors from Phila
dulphiu County aro not lcgnlly electod, and tliat
iho Vau Ilurcn mcn claiming scats mny bo cntit
led to them; and as a inntter of courso, that Mr
Nuj lor and not Ingorsoll, is entitlod to his scnt in
Congross. For ought wo know, tho 'hig Judgos
of elections in thc abovo nnincd County may have
acted fraitdiilctilly in rotnrning tho Whig membem
tn tho l.ogislatiiro as did tho Vau Itmcn Juilges iu
returning Ingcrsidl toCongress Of. ihose questions
tho house oT neprcscntativts of Pennsylvania in
ono caso, and tho houso of Reprcsentativos in Con
gross in tho other, aro tho competont nnd consti
tutional tribunals to decido.
But thu consideratiou which wo wish to urgu
and fix in tho tniiids of our rcndors is tho fact, that
thu mob who havo taken forciblu posscssion of the
Soiiuto chaa.ber nnd cxpollod tho Sonato of Penn
sylvnnia from thoir scats, is composcd cxclnsivply
of tho Van Buren party, and are upheld and jusli
fied by tho administrntinn papers throughout thc
country. It is nol pretcnded thnt tho Whigs have
had any lliing to do wiih disturbing the prnc.oedings
of tho Asscmbly. But tho ino'j, dignifn-d by the
V. B. papers with tho appellation oftho peoplo,"
is described as expressing its indignalion against
tho Whig mombers oftho Lcgislaturc, and ngainst
tho Sccrotary of Slato and sundry other Whig nf
ficers, whom they allego havo no legal right
to thcirseats, or have trnnsconded tlicir powers in
somc ofliciitl acts.
Tho scveral Legislative bodics aro mado judgos
of the clcction of their monibors by tbo Constitu
tion of tho Unitcd Statcs, and by thoso of iho sov
oral States, but w l.ero in theso instruments is it
provided that iho peoplo shall assumblo and drivo
from tho halls of Legislation thc lteprcscntativcs
who claim to lio clected? '" :- -'-of-tnn.
and whero will it und? If tho Van Buren mob nf
Pennsylvnnia may asscniblo for Jho purpnso of dis
persing thc Lcgislaturo, und their papcrs genornlly
uphold nnd countcnanco llin proccedings, whero is
ihuguaranty that a mob of the samo party will not
on tho SdTucsdny of Octobcr tioxt nss--cmble nt
Montpelier nnd expel from tho Legislative hulls tho
Goncrnl Assenibly of Vcrinont? Aro cdilnrs who
couutonanco tho procrcdings of ihomnb nt Ilarris
burgh nwaro of iho tcndency of such riotous as
seniblagcs? Call thom by what namo wo will
a pi I:iik1 thom as tho sovcruign peoplo, or donounce
them as tho muh all must ndinit ihat their pro
ccedings havo not tho sanction of law. They are
an assoiiddiigo of poliiii-iuus, who havo incl from
Philadulphia aud other counties for concortcd ac
tion for preventing, by forco, thu organizntion of
tho house of Itopresentalivps uiiIcsh it is efi'ucted
in tho inanncr tliuy shall dictato. Their objcct
can only bo attaiuud by crusliing tho civil pnwei
and substituting tho roign of anarchy.
If cver thcro was n cnso whero patriolism and
lovo of country nnd regard to hiw nnmbincd to du
mand oftho couductors of the public press their
unitcd rcprobation of munsurcs tcnding tn anarchy,
civil war and rtvolution, this isclearly ono. Ilero
tho truo patriot, if found in tho Van Buron rtitiks,
will ovinco llio sincerity of his lovo of his country
by condemriing in his party that which is fraught
with his country 's ruin, nnd which, if not chcckcd,
and put down, will toll upon tho pngo of liistory ns
iho dumon spirit which iiumbcrod nnd fitiiahed tho
days of our happy Roptiblic.
Sinco tho forogoing wns writton wo havo intcl
ligonco from Uarrisburgh of tho disporsion of tho
insurrectionists, and of a niuro pncific stnto of of
fairs, so that tbo prcsonco of an nrmod forco wns
dcomcd unnecorsary. This afl'air shovvs tho ne
cessity of on organized inilitia.
I.mpoutant Meeti.ng. Soiuu weckssinco wo no
ticed n call had been issued for a mcoting nt Low
oll.signod by sixteen hundrcd mombers oftho Moth-
odist Episcopal church in New Englnnd , most of
whom wero clergymennnd loading uicmbors ofthjs
powerfnl denomination of Christians. On tho 20th
of laat monih, tho mcetitig was holdon, nt which
thero wero nbout 200 dolegates prescnt. Tho sos-
sion conlinued two days; and its doings will not bo
without efi'ect nmong the peoplo connccted with
this scct. Thcro hi.s beon, if wo mistnko not, nt
tompts on tho part of cortnin influential mothodisl
tn trnmmel thoir brothrcn by ecclusinstical prcrog
atives, real or assumed,in ruforcnco to this subjcct.
Tho losolulions ndoptod at this mcoting assert
tho provailing doctrincs nmnng abolitionists, in
a spnit thnt would sccm to spurn dominntion from
ovnry qunrtcr. Vo intcnded to copy a portion of
thom, but fi d wo must oniit them to malto room
for other mnttcis.
Ix.i.iNois. Thc Lagislaturo ofthisStato hns been
organizod. Ewing (V. B.) had ono mojority for
Speakcr in tho IIouso, and Bond (Whig) hnd threo
imtjority in tho Sonnto, for Clerk. It is uncertoin
which ,party will propondorato i n j oint ballot in tho
cloclion of a Sonatqr, ns aovcrol mombors ofboth
branchoa woro not in att.onijanpe.
CoKaness. Tho dubnto upon AlrCluy'a motion
to amend iho bill of Mr VVrightj which vvua to
postpono tho pnymont uf tho 4th insttillment of
tho Surplus tdl 1840 wns closod on Mondny nnd.
tho ninoudmont nngntived by tho following voto ;
Ykas. Calhoun, Clay ofKy. Claytnn, Critton
den, Davis, Foster, Knighl, Morrick, Prcntiss,
Itives, Itobbins, Kiigglus, Smiih of Ind. Sponoo,
Swift, Tallmadgo nnd Tiptnn. 17
Navs. AIIoii, llonton, Brown, Biichanun, Clny
of-Ala. Fulton, Uuhhard. King, Liimpkin, Lyon,
Morris, Niohohis, Nilcs, Norvol, Poarco, Prnston,
Roiino, Uobinson.Sniith of Conn. Sirango, VValker
VVnll, Williniiis of Mo. nnd WillinniH, tif Misa.
Tho Bill, ns rcported hy Mr Wright, to postpono
tho payment indrjiiiitcly, was thon ordorod to be
nnnrossnd: so thu "rotrnricliment and reform" of
..0.
tho Aduiinistralion will ohoat llio pooplo out ol
eight millions of dnllars.
Jn the IIouso Mr Fry of Ponnsylvnnin; nslced
lonvo to ofl'or a resolution, onlling on tho I'reaident
oftho U. S. for informntion ns to tho fact whcther
or nol ho had sont or ordored to ho scnt nn nrmed
forco to Ponnsylvania, with tho view ofsupprossing
tho riots nt Hurribburgh. Tho resolution furthor
called for all corrospondoiico in iho possossion of
tho Prusidont. Leavo was grantod. A loug nnd
oxciting dubatc followod, in whicli Mr Naylor pnr
licipated, and was frcquuntly put down hy thc
Speakcr. It was finally ndoptod almost unani
mously. Tnn Gac The infarr.oua rcsolutions ndoptod
by tho IIouso of ncprosontativcs in relatinn to
slavery, wero sustaiued principally by tho Slavc
holdiug Roprcsontatiycs, and tho Norlhcrii Van
Buren men. Tho Dulcgation fiom this Slato volcd
gcnerally against them. N( Whig from tho freo
States voted for that purt donying tho iight of pe
lition, whilo GO Locolocos from tlfe Northern
States voted uniformly with tho South. This
is tho ground upon whicli tho friands of Vau Buren
from tho North in Congress ctialcsce wiih the Nul
lifiers nnd Slavoholdura of tho South to support thc
Magicinn for tho 2d tcrm. Will the peoplo of tho
north ratify acontrnct which domnrids of thom thc
surrcnder nf their must sacrcd rights ?
FOH TltB CAI.Eno.NIAN.
TEM PERANCE 1 1 OLI l) A Y.
Mr Editok : Janunry 1, 1831), is tho day fixed
upon for thc nunutil meoting oftho Caledonia Co
Vouno Mk.n's TEMPiinANCE Sociktv. Propnr
iitions nro mnking to ronder thu meoting interesting,
and it is hopcd ihat n new imptilso will bo given
lo tho pnuse thai wilHirgc forwurd the glorious car
of Temppr.mco, till it shall havo crushed tho last
foe of freedom, and vniiquisheil tho last romnant
oftho ciicmios of huninn hnppincss.
Tho Cal. Co. Y. Moti'sTomp. Sooioty was formod
at a i:mo when thc principlps of tcmperanco woro
wnvcriug bctwecn total nnd partial nbstinnnce,
and thc cnuso was groaning under tho pondcrous
wpight of reproach tliat wns hcnppd upon il by its
vnumics. i his oociety tooit its stand upon totnl
ahstinunco ground, and havo nobly maintnined it
lill tho present poiiod. Tho old County Socicty,
either just bcfoio or after the organizntion oftho
new " nn tO tllO saillll arnnn.l, ....J ro
now cqunlly zcalous iu m ni n tui tii tig tho samo im
mutablu principlcs.
That tbo Voung Mcn's Socicty has donoinoro to
advanco tho causo of tcmperanco in this Couiiiy,
ihan any similnr association is u fact so pl.iin that
no pcrson, who is arquaiuted with its duings, will
rnll it in qucstion. Its annual nnd ndjoumed mcet
ings havo beon well attonded; itsidelihcraiions
havo been calm, yet dignificd nnd thorough, nnd
its wholo courso ha3 been mnrked byiicision of
clutractor, purity of principlo, and n 6tendy, unro
mitting pcrscvcranco Its creed contains po nrlicle
of compiomife wiih tho enen.irs ortpinpnrniife; its
xpirit seoks no nid from an impuro snurco, and its
solo objeot ia tho ndvapcomont nf human hnppi
ncss. It is partial to no pnrticular s ct or party,
thn poor mnn has nothing to fonr from its infiuence,
and socicty in goneral mny congratulate itself in
thn ncqiiisiliun of sdimportant nn anxilinry lo pro
inoto its intercsts.
Wo say, thon, to tho pooplo of Caledonia Coun
ty lomembcr thc, FIRST DAY OF JANUARY
1839, nnd Irt us havo vour prcsenco nt tho next
annunl mcetiiig oftho Socioty. Como.young mon,
brush up, nml givo somo of your noighbor's daugh
tcrs nn uivitation to rido with you to St. Johiibbu
ry. Lot thoro. bo no hnshfulncss or want of alten
tion; seo that ovory huly hns an invitation, nnd nll
things are in rondincss fiir the nccasion. Paronts,
seo that your children aro providod with suitnble
tuams, and if they aro dull to tho snbjet t, try to
awakcn theni, nnd ceaso not your excrlions till all
things aro in roatliness. Wo want the old fulks
also, to go with us, to inspiro our couiage nnd givo
groator effuct to our proceedings. Como, young
mcn, I rcpoat, let us tcstify our respcct for iho Ia
dies, by giving them nn invitiiiion to nttond llio
tcmpcrancn nicp.ling with us, tn hcar somo oxcul
lont lonipcrnncc disconres, nnd out a good Now
Your's suppur. Our tnannors will roceivo no in
jury, nnd our timo nnd moncy will bo bctt.cr om.
ployed ihan in ntlcnding balls, routs, and dancing
schnols. Tho causo of tcmpoinnco nocdb jmcour
agoment; it has n grcnt work yct to nccomplish,
and its onomics aro strong and niimerous. All
our tompcrnnco forccs should bo well disciplinod,
aud brniight into tho field and diicclod ngainst tho
strong towors oftho cnoniy. A grost moral battio
is yot to bo foughtj thu din of war is yet to bo
honrd longor nnd Joudur; the cry of qunrtor must
yot como from tho enemy. Turn out, thon, wo
say, young nnd olu, marricd and nnmarried; lot no
ono stny at homo who can possibly leavo; bo do
tormincd, bo rcsoluto, bo rcady to go forward.
Tho blood ol thousands is crying for rodross; al'most
ovory ncvvBpaper informs us of tho dondly march
oftho dcstroyor, nnd tho toars nnd groans ofhun
dreds in our own vicinity, aro oloquont witli en
troatics to spoed forward tho glorious work of ro-
formation. Onward, thon,yo noblo souls, nnd tho
cry of victory will soon provo tho efiiciuncy ofyour
moasures, and announco tho doath of tho destroy-
kk. X.
Lyndon, Dno. 19, 1838.
Ilon. ratrick Noblo was oluctcd Govornor of
South Carolina.by tho Logislauro ol that Slato, on
tho Gth tnst.
O'Tho offioinl cnnvnsa oftho votes for Sonntori
in, MnjHMchusotts "iliovvs tjnt out of tho 40 rnem
bors of that hody, only thiee Locos havo beon
olootod, Thoir oggrognto mojority is only 12G, aa
follows: Whitmarsh, 21,Pcrkins, 4, and Prat, 1 ! .
They aro olooted in tho Bristol District. Doei
this look liko tho triumph or Locofucoism in tho
Bny Stnto ) 1 Is jnunt thoro, nstrido of "siriped
piggery," hns not tonded mttclt to swell its bonstod
but not real slrongth, norrcdoundcd miich moro to
its glory thnn lias its luto attempts at insurrection
in Potinsylvanin.
Q3 Tho Middlebury Argus publishea n " Mr
Wndo," "profossor of Chirogrnphy," ns a "graco.
lessroprobulo." If ho is halfiis had as tho Argus
avurs ho is, tho public should bo on their guard,
and nol sufier him tn htunbug them.
TThriro has boon a fuiluro on tho 2d trinl in
llio 4lh District in Massnchupctts to elect n mp.mbcr
of Congress. Tho mnjnrity ngainst Parmenthr, tho
Van Buron candidate, nt tho lst trial, was 271 -it
is now 528. This augurs well for llio final success
oftho Whigs in tho District.
(DA public meoting fhvoring tho Canadian Pat-
riots, wus holden at Montpelier on tho 17th inst
Resolutions woro adopted and speechcs mado sut
ting forth tho griovnncps oftho Putriots.
Wo nnpy tho following ahstract of tho Roports
of the Naval, Post Offieo and War Departmouts,
from tho Nationnl JEn'is :
Statk of the Navy Tho princinal nart oFthn
nctivc naval loroo has hcijii eniploycd during tlio
year, in tho usuul mannnr, for tho protcction of A
merican cornmerco in tho Mcdiierranean nnd in
tho Pnrific, nn tlio const of Bruzil nnd in tho (ulf
nf Mexico. Nothing has ocpiiired on bilhei slniion
to disturb tho friendly rilatinns betweon us and
tho othor powora. Tho Explorinir Expodiunn
which sailed under commaud of Lt. Churles WiJkea
in August last, tho survey of tho coast and tho
protoction nnd rcluil ol dislrcssed mcrclinntmon on
tho coast, occupy thc other vessels which aro avail
ublo for sorvico.
The iiumber of pensioners npon llio Navy pen
sion fund is 847, rcquii ing tn pay thorn the artn unl
nmnunt of $103,120,23. Tho present ainount of
tho Nuvy Uospitnl fund is $123,470,23. Thc ron
struction of n dry dock in thu hnrlmr of New York
whero twn ships of wnr nre now laying in a dncny
ing stato for llio want of nccommodations for thoir
rupnir, isstrongly recominonded. Tho establish
meiit ofaNavnl Acudoiny for tlio naval eduration
of young ofllccrs, it is thought, would be of great
benrfit to this brnnch oftho public sprvico. No
rediiclion of the present naval eslablishment can
bo mado without ondangering tho interesta, which
its present vigor nml nctivity aro necissary to pro
tect. Post Officf. DK.PArtTjt ent. From thc report nf
Post Mnster Generhl, tho following informntion ia
gathorcd, res)Pcting tho condition of the dopart
ment Tho criahlished post routcs in thn Unit.
ed States extcnri over 134,848 milos ; nnd thn nc.
tual transiortation of mnils upon them, i3 34,580,
202 mi!es, at n cost of 3,131,308. The number
of post oflices is 12,554. Their incrcose during tho
voar next prcccd.ng tho first of July Lial, was 752.
Duiing tho samo year, 2,(108 postniasters wero np
pointed. The number of mail contrnctors in sor
vice during tho year wns 1,047. Tlio revenuo of
the departincnt for the ycnr ending 30th of Juno
last, is natimated at 4,262,140, nnd tho exnendi
tures nud liabititius for thc snnip timo wore 4,680,
0U8, mnking nn excess of cxpendunre over tho rev
enuo of $4 17,925. In conspquenco of this defic
ioncy , a curtailment of mail service for the year to
como, is rendered necessnry. Tho difiicullies ho
twecn tho departnient and the railroad compnnip,
in consuqucncc of tho exorbitant price demniwd by
tho lattcr for the transportation of the mnils, havu
contiiiiied, in mnny instances, to deprivo iho pub
lic of somo of iho benefita which their iucorpora
tion nnd constructiou wns designed to secure. Thn
neccssity nf a suilablo firepronf building for tho
usn ol tho (lcpartmciit, nnd lor tho snfe keeping of
its valnablc booka nnd papors, ia bronght to the at
tontinu of Congress.
RF.r-ouT or the Secretahy of Wxn. A Inrgo
portion of the troops, during tho Inst jear, havo
hoen oniplnyed in Florida under Gen. Taylor.
Tho govornment, tlia Secretnry snys, hns nn ahcr
native bnt tn perscvero in the war until the Indians
aru oxpelled from tho tcrritory. In ordor to fhrin a
harrier ngainst tho savagps, Gen. Taylor has beon
directod to invilo tho settlers to roturn to thc fitrms
thoy havo abandonptl , to picket thoir housps, and
tn organizo themselvcs intn liodies for niutunl do
IVnco and for thn protcction of the country.
Whilo thii3 employed, thoy nro to bo taken into
tho servico, and receive pay of tho govornmnnt.
It is rccommrndod to governmeut to bp.stow n
bounty of lund upon ihoso who will settlo upon
tho lund upon ticso torm.i.
Thoreinnvnl of tho Cherokccs has bonn efipctrd
withoui violenco or difficulty, thoir reluctuni'o tr
ipavo ino lanu ot their birih boing first enlirely
ovorcomo.
Tho numbor of persons on iho npnsinn rnlU U
11.878. Tho donths of nonsioenrs?duriiiiT ilin vinr
niling Sept 30th, havo hnen 1461 : tho luMiTinns
during tho samo timo, 2354. Tho ponsions to vvid-
ows undt'r llie act of July 1838, will inceaso tho
pxponditures of thc dopn'rtmunt about 1,372,000..
Of this immonso sum, tho Snr.retary estimatos that
not moro tnanono lialt over will reach tho olijects,.
whoso distrcsscs it was intended to rnlievc ; tho
rest will bo swallowed by usurious agonts, or wrest
ed from tho depurtmcnt by fraudulcnt applications.
Tho evil ciilla for jtnmcciQ.tQ remcdy.
QjTho Now York Gazetto snys thnt tho splen-
did stoauibnat building in England, thnt was to bo
called tho United Statos, it is ornamonted by a full
length figuro hoad of Van Buren, and hor namo to
bo changcd to that of tho 5m A Trcnnury Pacfcct, by
which chango the otvners nxppct tnrecoivo tho pa
tronago of all tho govornment defaultois from lliin
cnuntry !
William Johnston, who escapod from llio U. S.
Murshnl at Anburn, has beon nrrcstcd in Oneida
county, by Capt. Vaughan and Mr Turnor, and on
thc 12th inst. was lodged in tho jnilof Albany, lo
await iho sitting of tho U. S, District Court in
Janunry.
Tho Sorgoant and two privntos, who hnd chnrgo
of thc citndol alQ,uebcc, when Thollorand Dodgo
mado thoir oscapo, havo bcon tricd beforo a Court
Martial, found guilty, and sontonccd to bo hang
od. TJio Baltimoro Chr.oni.cIo of Alondny snys :
'Tho city is full of rumors of defalcations in tho
Buroaux at Washington .city. Unwilling to do nny
ono prcjudico, wo do not stnlo tho names of tha
peraons chargod with theso offenccs, but thoy can.t
long rcmain concealcd."
Tho skoloton of a soldior wns discovorcd on a
farm latoly in Flatbtish, Now York, about four feet
beneath tho surfaco of tho earth: Tha skull wa
onvoloped in a whito throe-cornerod-cockod hat.
Tho bullot itsolf was fonnd lodgod in tho skull.