,
.
fVOLUME 1.1
I MONDAY, / AMU A R} ijgg.
I To the Public.
rr —
X III. Preficlent and Directors of
[ lhf SS.1CH[’SETV'S EIRE INSURANCE COM
■sJ’/iA}, anxious to keep in view the principle of
i; puoljc benefit, whi di gave origin to their inflitution,
j 1° bfieu, as far as in their power, the ieverity of
misfortunes, confccjucnt from tliofc dcfolating fires to
‘ winch we are expofed have determined to reduce the
Rates of Iniurancc, lo low, as they prefume will meet
1 the circumllances of every clais of citizens. For a
it:fling turn annually, every individual can now have
it in Ins power, to ftcure to hf»nfelf and family, a part
01 earnings perhaps ot a long life, from the grafp
cl t:;is mercilcfs tyrant, and to equal ze his lolfes cn
the cot: t -unity. By thefe cautionary meant, while he
prefervts the reward of hi- indutlry, he faves his feel
ings from the lliock ot humbling himfelf to petition,
and fecures the right boldly to demand compcnfa
tion.
The prefent rates of lufurance are
as follow, calculated on a fcale of redudlion of 25 per
cent, from the former rates, viz.
\Ji Clefs—Ilouies or Stores, with
[brick or Hone walls, anj flatc, tile, lead, copper, or
[ romp.>fi:ion roofs, Handing feperate fioni other build
ings—50 cents on ico dollars.
m! Clefs—Houfes or Stores, whh
buck or Hone walls, and Hate, tile, lead, copper, or
| competition roofs, conncclcu with o'lier buildii'.gs,
[hacing brick partition walls of one or more feet above
I the roof—55 cent*.
yl Clefs—Houfes or Stores, with
l hi ic k or (lone xvalis, ar-d wooden roofs, that Hand
frperate from or connected with other buildings, with
bru k partition walls ol cnc or more Net above the roof
—60 cents.
Alb Clefs—Iloufes or Stores, with
,br;rk cr Hone v. all and wooden roofs, cor nctided with
'other buildings, without brick partition walls—65
cents.
f.b Clefs—Houfes or Stores, c.f
wrod nr plailtcr w .lls, Handing feperate fr. other
(buildings — 70 cents.
6tb Clefs—Houfes or Stores of
wood, cor.needed w ith oilier building*—80 cent:.
Where buildings are occupied for
hazardous trade*, or for floring hazardous merchan
dize, the premiums are regulated by the material. of
the bui dings, their fituation, and the purpofes to
which they :rc aoplicd, Home*, &c ir. the country,
fituared r metcly from external hazards, are infured at
'reduced rates. All Ioffes are paid by the Company in
CAS1I, without any dobicflitu, in thir:y days after
Mfrvof. > r Or.hr.
WILLIAM SCOLLAY, Scc’ry.
k. b. Letters cdircjftcd to the Secretary (Por
tage paid w i.l he dulv a'.’.cndtd to.
FIRE OFFICE,
No. r6, S..e.--S.ice:, Co.tox, 27- T 1 ~<)t.
| Samuel TValdo s li/laic.
riSJOlICE is hereby given to all ccn
i. \ ctrn d, that the lubferiber hat been du v app imt
H A dm ini rxrr x to thee flute of SAMUEL WALDO,
b.teol Portland i ; the c unty of Cumbtr’and, Mer
chant, derrah •! ; and h; s taken upon hcrftlf that miff
•V giving ‘mud as the law direct*. She therefore ic
all p , ions, who hate any demand* on faid cflate,
to bung iu th l one foricibcmt nt ; and all tho>e who
•f'it.d.!>teJ t./iuid t ute to v. invniciit without
delay, to
J, Adminijlr aliix.
j' it..mi. I’t.
* Ulmcon 'h :i ys F.JLitc.
Till , i ’>Jc:; ' rs hereby give notice
to . u co .ee." -d, '! iiat having been duly np
t1' * ‘ted .o' it • tr ? • up n tin* tft :if ox SIMEON
[xI'lNBY L*t i 1 1 l !., h. in tilt cuun'v of Cumber
land, ci h; du. a. el, . ve taken upon thcinfelve*
khat trufl, and ivt- t ! k i the law directs They
th more r<«, !l a.: r , . >n. who are indebted to faid
pice tft d s <* It .tr to i imtnctiia c payment, and theft
• ho have anx mam!-, (lit- : i to exhibit the lame to
l 1 ,Y Q N 1. . i A i m in . a -
I LI.A7,1*k BURBANK, i ten.
\ Fa!mcuir>, Dee. 1'j, ‘7'/4.
* AJa Sanborn s EJIatc.
THE fubferiber hereby gives notice
to all concerned, That he hath been duly ap
f'!l1 (d Admin i (b a tor cn the cflate of ASA SAN
jJLOLN, !a: of C.or ham, in the county of Cumberland,
yeoman, dec aftd. and given bond as the law dirertii.
As fuch e hereby call- upon all perfons who have any
ela ms ii !l lau flat , to exhibit the fame, and mi
en thofc who arc indebted to Laid eltate, to make im
1**tiedi,u<. payment to
ELISHA SANBORN.
m Ooritvt, E . 20, I "ed>..
I*' IDlU'uun Co'r fivci/’s Iijlate.
VTOTICE.V hereby given to alt con
. cffned, that tjic fubferiber has been duly ap.
KwiCd A,:'niu ftr trix to tie cflate of WILLIAM
Eg oV. hi.l,, >u c 0f Portland in the cmivy *>f. Cum
ro»nd, Ai r- i* <u^ deccafed , and ha? tak/n upon
5Tr‘l!> tl! U 1 * A by giving bond as the law clircdts.—
^ there.o*# requefis all perfons, who have any de
a ...i on ,a , cfj, t to bring in the fume f r fc;tlement;
*'K‘ “ 1 “4' r, wlio <rc indebted to laid cflate, to make
pajmen; witlruit defay, to
r j, tiANN Hi V*. COGSWELL, A dm irjlntfrix:
llami, Dea’T.Ur 4, xy<;&.
*
FOR THE GAZETTE.
SUCH THINGS ARE.
- NUMBER V.
<pu\l -oerum M;ue decent, id euro it rogo, et onnis in bee fun.
To the Rev. Jedediaii Morse, d. d.
nr
X HE deep laid plans of Weishaupt, to
fubvert government, to annihilate religion, and
to reduce mankind to their primeval Date, ef
poufed by the phihfphers and reformers of Eu.
rope, and by the jacobins of Ameiica, have
juillv excited the attention of the public ; and
awakened in ycur own fcofom a pertinent folici
tcide lor the event. We fully agree with you,
th.it tls proofs of a confpiracy are the refult of
incontcftable facts—that the principles of A
me.ican jacobins are derived from the Jllumi
ted iocietiv.s in France and Germany, and that,
if they be not checked by government, and by
the good fenfe of the people, they will finally
airive to the fame dangerous and bloody ex
treme.
^ Thus far we agree. Eat we difagree as to
toe orig n of the Illuminati. You impute it to
the arts and tntdgru's of M ifons ;—hence you
hive dra'.vn an inierence unfavorable to rna*
fonrv in general—-and you alfo feem to imagine
that the inllitution iifc-U is impregated with
do^rines oppohte to religion and government.
— i our want of m.donic knowledge roav, per
haps, excufe your doubts with lefpeft to the
real \ linciplcs of the fraternity—but when you
mil ue ir mifeenceive the plain import of Robi
so«. you deterve not the lead apology whatever.
I A ftarcmer.t i f a few fimple fails will place the
fubi eft in its true light.
It is a fa<51 that Weishaupt, after lie had
conceived the vaft defign of overturning all the
civil and religious eftablifhments in the world,
very artfully reforted to mafons as die fitted
i iftrumcnts of his diabolical pu'pcf:s—became
myjltry was neccliary to fuccHs, and it could be
n ) where fo lately depofited as in the bofom of
; a lodge, in whi h fcrecy is enjoined, and which
| is not io liable to excite the fufpiciens of tlie
j world. 1 ut it is equally true that the difei
j pics to his creed were deceived. It ;s a fa<51 well
I known, that mafons have no conceptions of the
; principles and ceremonies of the degrees abo ve
the lb into which they have been admit r ’.
Here then is the point of Weishaupt’s du
plicity. He fir ft prompted them with ?t third
of farther knowledge in the art—they believed
kim to pofitfs it—and requefted of him an ex
pofitlon of fun her myftcries. Thus were they
ltd hkc lambs to the Daughter—for Wbisn
■ I MPT flf rrt I.TtnfT ... .1_.1 .._
* - ** lliwiii nil Li Ul
j r; f rfc degree', initiated l\ii deluded cai.di
1 dates into degrees of hist r/n contrivance, cal
' dilutee. iw . rrupt their principles, and to
i Tender the precepts, ’hey had before heard in
.ndcatid in the lodges, tlale and difguftipg.
j Tiicfe new fangkd dej rees were highly tin
blazoned with ctremonj-s and emblems, winch
c. xctcd thircuiiohty--but which in fa ft had
no other tendency thr.m to n Ulead and nmufe.
Ir tme that t.\c 'candidates now and then,
as the principles of * } :s new order were gradu
aiiy u 'o;ded, flarMed at their own credulity—
i r.t a inndmls for novelty, the faithful tenant
(■k’hc human br? ,Ji, and ti e appearance of lb ,
muchJacrcu rnyjj ry, induced them to progrefs :
th y did i.«t even fufpeft the corruption of
their own principles and morals ; and when
they were a' 'rrii’ted into the Il/umirnti, where
they became titled for every evil w.,rk, their
dem i n be arr.e more, permanently fixed, ar.d
they ; :ml*v believed, that they had row arrir
< u to ti e apex ot rriafonic light. Every thing
they fav or heard inculca’ed was divine—and
l ! hur gieat founder/ v.as confidercd as the fub
lim: oracle of perftfticn itfclf. To this pol
tured fbuice *Jie difurders cl Europe may be
attiibutcd ; and the Jacobins of America aft
veil the p/rt afiigr.cd them by the Jacobins of
Paris.
hfovv, 7lr, permit ns to afk-ought this frail
ly and 'delufion of h'afisns to be confidercd as
an mr jkcatic n ol mafonry in general ? As well
roighi, >ou fay, that the chriftian fyftem has no
lorn Jation in truth, bccuufc its profcff.us aft
con1 .rary to its precepts. Confidering the ta
lents, «harafter, arts and intrigues of Weish
a’/tt, and live nature of his dogmas, is the
d. dufion lie has propagated flrange nnd unna
tural : It is true that, when we only view the
(jfefls of h;s fchemes, we are filled with furprize
J and horror—but when we trace thefe effefts to
their eaufes, we ceafe to wonder at the fuccefs
of his plans. If we tremble at the ravages of
the former, we Hand aft< r.iihed at the depth of
the latter. Look at Jlfiersok, Gallatin,
Nicholas, and Monrgb—they are the tiue
dilciples of Wlishaort—obferve the troubles
they have excited by the propagation of revolu
tionary fenumenfs, and the partizaus they have
acquired, and then weep at the depiavity of
human nature.
The point, therefore, on which we differ is
' if y cffcntial to the mafonic inflicution—of
which you are not a member, and of coorie
ir.uft be ignorant in ibme mealure of its Jain
tuples. Penult us then to tell you, that its
great out line* coniift in the belief of rcvela
tion, and in the practice of the divine precepts_
in the diffusion of charity and benevolence_
and in the [uppert of the ejjbhjbcd Government.
Show us then a member o! the fraternity, who
i» at the fame time a jacobin, or,' in other
words, an enemy to our ccnftituted authorities,
and we will (how you a purgered villain !
Mifcellaneous Articles.
New Patent Fire-Engine.
A IT RE ENGINE has reccntly*been invent
ed by a Mr. Elijah Ormsbkl, of Providence,
in the State if R^pdeifttnd. The propiietor
has obtained a patent for his invention. The
following defeription of the machine is given in
a Providence paper :
“ I his Engine pofTefles the f blowing advan
tages over the Englilh Pump Engine : It is of
a fimple ft uclure, confiding of no other ma
chintiy than a C’ank a; d a Screw”, aMd can
herelore be aftorde-i much cheaper, and islefs
11 tide to be out oforder ; it takes up but about
halt the room, and by the application ot the
lame force will throw water one quarter fur
ther. It-s ftmplicity, ch apnels and compail
nefs, will render it convenient for many domef
t’c purpo.'es, as wafliing windows, watering
gardens, See. The fame properties will rend r
it equally ufeful on (hipbnard, where it will not
only anfwer its general purp >fe of quenching
li e, but, by the he’p of a hofe, will wet every
fail in the Hiip.”
STOVES.
In the uf>; of clofe ftoves, a great faving of
I uel is inaije, and Heat is more generally dif
‘ufed chro’ugh a Room. Thefe me confidera
blc adva'ntages, which many cann~t enjoy, as
thelc ftoves afFcft them in a very dilagteeable
manne'r, producing Plead aches, &c.—Conceiv
ing it may be of fervice, we are induced to in
i 'trii our readers that a Bowl or other veil’d
'v»th water j laced on the tep of the liove, will
'do away thefe effefts, by keeping up a proper
degree cf humidity in the atjnofpbere of the
Room. -(Mer. Adv.j
USEFUL HINT.
The difference between t iling eve y morning at
6 and at 8, in the courfe of 40 ye; rs, ibppoiing
a man to go to beJ at the fame time he other
wile would amounts to 20,000 hours; cr 3 years,
12 1 days, and 16 hours, which will aff >rd eight
hours a day for exactly 10 years ; fa that it is
the fame as if 10 years cf life were added, in
wh ch we could command 8 hours every day
for the cultivation of our miads, or the dilpatch
of Luftncfs.
PROPHETIC.
I)r. Donglafs, Vd. I* II. of his fummary,
remarks, that “The French are the common
nu fince and diitv'hers oh Europe, and will in
a fhott time become the fame in America ”_
This he vviotc fifty years age. Jij page 2? he
obferves, that they had been above a^enrury
aiming, like the Remans, 'o become the aibi
ters of all the known and civilised nations
FRENCH LANGUAGE.
The I lcr.cii language has hitherto been the
language of almoH all the courts of Europe._
It is now on the decline, the Germ ms are cul
tiva'ing their language with aihduity, and the
Engblh is gaining ground fall, and will before
long cliiplace the French. It is row a branch
of polite education in different parts of Eu
rope.
Democratic Trick.
Ft cm a 1.widen P,:per.
J.ar.o Ctf\—II; m’et t* Fes 1' n.
It appeared that the profecutor had been
feme time in the life guards, 1 tit wid :n thefe
few months had retired fr om the fame, ar.d be
came a volunteer in the Weflminftcr afTocia*
tion ; ar.d that the defendant was an old ac
quaintance.
Mr. Alley, counfel for the profecutor, Hated,
that the defendant called at the hotife of the
profecutor and folicitcd him, as Lis friend, and
the friend of Democracy (of which he himfelf
was a votary) “ not to pull a trigger againfl
his countrymen and affjciates that the pro
fecutor put liis finger on the defen Jam’s mouth
to flop his babble, when by feme accident it
' flipped in and the defendant almofl bit it oil'.
This was fupported by the tefiimony of the
profecutor and other witnefles, and being found
guilty, the court fentenced him to be imprifon
cd in the houfe of corrcdion for two months,
and to pay a fine of five pounds.
[This wolf-like trick is an exact emblem of
the general concimfl of the brutes of Jcmociacy
ail over the world. They bowl and bellow
againlt their opponents with the lungs of a
Stentor and the fury of devils ; and the mo
ment you attempt to Hop the:r mouths, hv
means however gentle, they turn on you with
the ferocity of canibals, they bite, they kill, and
devour you, ii they can.} Porcufme.
Legiflature of the Union.
•— .
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 26.
1 HE Secretary of the navy "communicated
a report on the Naval force, &c. of the United
States.
UNOFFICIAL AGENTS.
Mr Gri.wolJ laid on the table, the follow
ing resolution :
*' ^ ^ a committee be appointed to enquire into the
expediency of amending the art, entitled “ An ad ill
addition to the ad, entitled an ad for the pun
ithment of cert sin crimes again!! the United
Sta'es/' fj fir rs to extend the penalties, if need be,
to alt perfons, citiz ss of the United States, wht
fh.ul ujurp tlyt executive authority of this government,
by commencing or carrying on corrcfpondencc with t
the government of any jO'eign Prince or State, relate
tln'? the centroverfire or difputes which do tr Jhall
cxijl between fuch Prince or State and the U. States.**
TAN ERUPT ACT.
The Houfe, in committee, went through the
bin ; after which Mr. Otis propofed fume a*
mendments, which were dife ifed.
FREN‘11 IXTERCOUR E.
Mr. Wain prefented a p.tit’cm from the mer
chants and trad rs of Philadelphia, prayi g
that the ad prohibi ing intercourse with France
m^y be fo modified, as not to prevent the r
taking mea ts to recover debts due in Franco
and her colonic*. Referred.
DEBTOR S TA TES—E XU MESA TIC .V.
The JB 11s on thefe fubjed's, raffed to be en
0
THURSDAY, DEC. 2"].
The Stamp Ad amendment bill was, on mo
tion cf Mr. Otis, re committed.
The Enumeration, and Debtor Slate bills, paf
led to le crudeJ.
UNOFFICIAL AGENTS.
Mr. Grifwold's Rtfolution, on this fubjed,
was taken up
Mr. Nicholas fa id it was quite a novel fubjed
of Legiilation ; he was not apprifed cf the pro
priety ot making fuch enquiry. If there was
any ground for the motion at all, it certainly
nut ft appear that It was premature, for furely
if there was any improper condud tranfaded by
any perfi>n it malt be proper that the H -ufc bs
informed what that con dud was, before they
coUid legiflate on it. We were told three week*
ago, that ccmmm.ica'ion would he made to us
iu relation to the French government. The
1 Ionic had already been engaged in reference
to that government ; th«y h:»d alradv given
their opinion refpeding it ; if this meafure was
adopted, it might prevent that communication
coming' in ; it was frying, ve had no need of
any communication on the fuhjed. We ought
to know what it is that has given rife to fo n.w
a fpecies cf Legifhxtion. He ftid lie was fur
prifed that caufe lor fuch a motion fliould have
' cen apprehended by any gentleman ; be did
hope that there was nothing new in the ft ite of
tnis country th.it cculd dired tire gentleman's
attention to any particular perfc r>, and ?h;s opin
ion appeircd t i be maintained by the fpeeeh of
the Freluleot, but if there was, it would be the
fubject of a future communication, and in liich
a fta'e of things, it would be wrong to fix aa
improper hold on the minds cf the people, be
fore the fubjed iliould faftly be ome an objed
oi Legiilation. As he had o' ferved, he did
tlr.rk iron the tore of the Prefidtnt, that the
date of affairs was mend-d ; he was ftrength
ened in that principle from tb.e tone of many*
gentlemen laft leifi- n ; they then repeatedly ex
prered their opinions that we were brought to
the laft ftage of the bufxnefs, and that a decla
ration oi war was not only proper but neceffary ;
but it appeared that fince that, the ftate of th ngs
was improved, and that there was really a pof
iibility, arifing out of the fads which had come
to view, and what wgie in the Preiident‘s
knowledge, that an accommodation with France
could take place. 'Phis being the general ap
pearance of affairs, lie contended that the
Honfe ouiht to wait a communication before
they preceded to a meafure like this.
Mr. Grifwold faid that the gentleman was
miftaken, as to the objed of the ref lation ; it
did not refped any circumflance. which might
have been tranfaded. It appeared to him an
°bjed demanding general Legiilation, whick
the example of Europe preyed ti’e recciTity rf.
It any thing which the refolution uimed at. had
been dore, it could not be thought to aim at
that, as it could not effed it, it only locked for
ward t« what may be. If the agent of a fad
ion fliould hereafter crof* the Atlantic, by the
defire, and for the benefit t f the views of that
iadion, and fuch agent iliould tuat wiih tfat
foreign nation, unauthorife i f-y 'be Executive ;
fudi a than ought to it. die febjod < i law, &