36
POET R Y.
The following commendation of the youthful
poet, by John Neal, we heartily endorse.
From the Portland Tribune.
The following scrap of poetry, which was written
by an uneducated farmer’s boy, a long way down-east,
I have begged of the author for you, under a promise
to bring the public acquainted with him through the^
Brother Jonathan. 1 am no friend to scribblers or
scribbling, as you know —and still less to the manu
facturing of poetry per order, instead of digging furan
honest livelihood. But when I see a lump of the true
ore like.this, and find it in the possession of a poor
fellow who cannot work, and must either play or die,
I can’t, for the life of me, bring myself to pass by on
the other side, and leave him to perish. J. N.
From the Brother Jonathan.
TO THE NORTHER# LIGHTS.
Ye gorgeous visions of the northern sky,
Mysterious and sublime !
Who lit your brilliant lights on high ?
Stream ye alone in idle revelry,
Above our cloudy clime,
Without an aim, or nature, more
Than mortal vision can explore ?
Or have ye some high, unknown ministry ?
Whence sprang ye into birth ?
In distant realms unseen ?
Or claim ye sisterhood with earth ?
And will your strange, ethereal sheen
Fade with her fading green ?
Man's wisdom has not told—
Ye are a mystery,
Which time perhaps shall ne’er unfold ;
Philosophy, whose eagle pinion bold
Has conquered space, and brought the planets near
To her inspecting eye,
Has sought in vain to fathom you,
Or tell the office that ye do.
Ye are of later date—
Say—are ye for a sign,
Lit by the hand divine,
Whence earth should read her coining fate ?
Signs shall be set in heaven,
And wonders meet the eye.
And flaming prodigies be given
Within the upper sky.
Ye may be such—yet man would be
Most backward thus to interpret ye,
Who glides in blind security,
Down Time’s exhausting tide ;
Puts far away the evil day,
Or dreams that he shall dwell for aye,
In all bis lust and pride.
Whate’er ye are, ye have an aim,
For He has lit your wondrous flame,
Who fashions not a flower in vain.
And howe’er fruitlessly we pry
Into your inward mystery,
One feature still is plain —
Like as in all his works, sublime or fair.
We trace the glories of the Godhead there!
ISAAC GRAY BLANCHARD.
From the Knickerbocker, for February.
THE ANTIQUITY OF FREEDOM.
BY WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.
Here are old trees, tall oaks and gnarled pines.
That stream with gray, green mosses; here the
ground
Was never trenched by spade, and flowers spring up
Unsown, and die ungathered. It is sweet
To linger here, among the flitting birds,
And leaping squirrels, wandering brooks, and winds
That shake the leaves, and scatter, as they pass,
A fragrance from the cedars thickly set
With pale blue berries. In these peaceful shades—
Peaceful, unpruned, immeasurably old—
My thoughts go up the long dim path of years,
Back to the earliest days of Liberty.
Oh Freedom ! thou art not, as poets dream,
A fair young girl, with light and delicate limbs,
And wavy tresses gushing from the cap,
With which the Roman master crowned his slave,
When he took off the gyves. A bearded man,
Armed to the teeth, art thou ; one mailed hand
Grasps the broad shield, anff one the sword; thy
brow,
Glorious in beauty though it be, is scarred
With tokens of old wars : thy massive limbs
Are strong with struggling. Power at thee has
launched
His bolts, and with his lightnings smitten thee :
They could not quench the life thou hast from heayen.
Merciless Power has dug thy dungeon deep,
And his swart armorers, by a thousand fires,
Have forged thy chain ; yet, while he deems thee
bound,
The links are shivered, and the prison walls
Fall outward : terribly thou springest forth,
As springs the flame above a burning pile,
And sboutest to the nations, who return
Thy shoutings, while the pale oppressor flies,
Thy birthright was not given by human hands ;
Thou wert twin-born with man. In pleasant fields,
While yet our race was few, thou sat’st with him,
To tend the quiet flock, and w^tch the stars,
And teach the reed to utter simple airs.
Thou by his side, amid the tangled wood,
Didst war upon the panther and the wolf,
Your only foes ; and thou with him didst draw
The earliest furrows on the mountain side,
Soft with the Deluge. Tyranny himself,
Thy enemy, although of reverend look,
Hoary with many years, and far obeyed,
Is later born than thou; and as he meets
The grave defiance of thine elder eye.
The usurper trembles in his fastnesses.
Thou shalt wax stronger with the lapse of years,
But he shall fade into a feebler age :
Feebler, yet subtler ; he shall weave his snares,
And spring them on thy careless steps, and clap
His withered hands, and from their ambush call
His hordes to fall upon thee. He shall send
Quaint makers, forms of fair and gallant mien,
To catch thy gaze, and, uttering graceful words,
To charm thy ear; while his sly imps, by stealth,
Twine round thee threads of steel, light thread on
thread,
That grow to fetters ; or bind down thy arms
With chains concealed in chaplets. Oh I not yet
May’st thou unbrace thy corslet, or lay by
Thy sword : nor yet, O Freedom I close thy lids
In slumber : for thine enemy never sleeps.
And thou must watch and combat, till the day
Of the new earth and heaven. But would’st thou rest
Awhile from tumult and the frauds of men,
These old and friendly solitudes invite
Thy visit. They, while yet the forest trees
Were young upon the unviolated earth,
And yet the moss-stains on the rock were new,
Beheld thy glorious childhood, and rejoiced.
A FREE COUNTRY.
Oh ! blest the land, and happy is the race,
Though rough the soil, and pent in narrow space,
Where a brave people, true to all their rights,
Whom luxury charms not, nor oppression blights,
By love united in one common cause,
Uphold their sacred liberty and laws :
Nor foes without, nor enemies within,
Can wrest from freedom, or from virtue win ;
Triumphant kings their dynasties may found,
And with their conquests make the world resound ;
Confusion oil their Babel-structure waits,
And Ruin thunders at their temple gates ;
But the fair edifice that Freedom rears,
Gains strength and beauty with increasing years,
For its foundations like the mountains rise,
Fart of the soil, although they pierce the skies.
NON-RESISTANCE.
Spirit of the Religious Press.
The New-York Evangelist has published, with high
exultation, fourteen sonnets recently written by the
poet Wordsworth, in favor of capital punishment.
That paper is delighted with ‘ their admirable philoso
phy and clear reasoning,’ and thinks * nothing which
Mr. Wordsworth has ever written in this form is su
perior to these.’ Will not the Governor ofNew-York,
whenever a vacancy shall happen, appoint the editor
of the Evangelist to fill the office of common hang
man? He will, doubtless, be glad of an opportunity
to show how human beings may be strangled, for
Christ's sake —especially as he is a priest.
The Boston Recorder notices the fact, that a
strong effort is making in the Legislature of Pennsyl
vania, as also in New-York, to abolish the punish
ment of death, and adds— l A well prepared memorial,
in opposition to so fanatical a measure, is on foot,
among the friends of the Bible, (!) and of man, and
we trust will be widely circulated and signed. As
well sweep away all law and all government at once.
Universal anarchy and violence are the inevitable re
sult of legislation so preposterous as that now pro
posed. It must be resisted strenuously, by every man
who claims to be a patriot, a philanthropist, or a
Christian.’ (!)
This thirst for blood, on the part of the professed
ministers of Christ, (they know him not,) is truly
shocking. How terrifying is the progress of reform to
a corrupt and time-serving priesthood !
N. B. The Christian Intelligencer and Christian
Reflector copy approvingly the article from the Re
corder into their columns !
From the Non-Resistant.
Godlikeness.
To resemble his Deity is the aim of every true be
liever in any form of religion. According as the
idea which has been formed of the Supreme Being is
low or lofty, is the standard of his worshippers noble
or unworthy. Every advance in true civilization has
been marked by the attainment of an higher concep
tion of the Divine character, and consequently of an
higher ideal of human perfection. The Jewish idea
was as much in advance of that of Egypt from whence
they came forth, and that of the nations into the midst
of which they w*ent, as the Christian idea is before
that of Jewry. As the Christian idea has emerged
from the mists and clouds of Paganism, of the gross
despotism of the middle ages, of selfish passions, into
the clear sunlight of truth, the true objects of human
pursuit have been more plainly discerned, and more
rationally followed. As the mind’s eye becomes
purged of its earthly distemperatures, and perceives
more and more singly the great object of human
contemplation—the Divine Being—it will serve more
and more surely as a lamp to the feet in the devious
maze of life. When the mind is penetrated with the
true sense of the Divine nature will all its manifesta
tions be more and more i-n accordance with its perfect
standard. No man is better than his God. Rather,
perhaps, he will ever insist upon making his God no
better than himself.
No stronger evidence of this truth can be urged than
the example of the American people. They profess
to be an eminently Christian people. They disfigure
their faces, and make long prayers for a pretence, and
turn up their eyes at Sunday steamboats and mails,
and groan in spirit at the spiritual destitution of Hea
thenism, and then they wipe their mouths and com
mit all manner of oppression, and robbery, and un
cleanness, and murder, and deny the very knowledge
which they believe essential to salvation, to millions
of their neighbors, and then give all the glory to God
and to His Christ. They profess to believe that it is
their duty to forgive and love their enemies, to return
good for evil, and blessing for cursing, and then they
go and equip navies and enlist armies, and build
penitentiaries, and erect gibbets, for the purpose of
revenging themselves upon those that have injured
them, or of destroying those that are likely to do
them hurt; and the whole praise thereof is given in
annual State Messages and Proclamations, and in
Thanksgiving and Election Sermons, and in religious
newspapers, to the Lord God Almighty. He is sup
posed to smile upon our extermination of the Semi
noles, by shooting and hanging them in detail; and
in case we should have to go to war with England in
defence of our missionary operations on the coast of
Africa, it is firmly expected that he will buckle on
his armor and fight on our side, in so holy a cause.
The manifestoes which will publish our bloody in
tentions will be issued in his name, the bulletins,
which will lie on our side, will make honorable men
tion of him amongst the gallant officers that may have
distinguished themselves in the battle, and the holy
men who minister at his altar will uplift their conse
crated hands in sacred thanksgiving for the slaughter
he has helped to execute upon his children and their
brethren.
Such is the amount of the Christianity of America.
If it were the fashion of this age and country to give
a visible shape to the popular mythology, what would
be the presentment given of the god of the Amer
ican Church and nation ? He would be represent
ed as a grim, ruthless, frowning monster, besmeared
with gore, seated upon a throne of human skulls and
broken hearts, holding in one hand a bloody sword,
and in the other a slave-whip, snuffing up the reeking
steams of murder, and lust, and oppression, which are
continually ascending from his altars. At times, like
the gods of the nations round about, he descends to
take a part in the transactions of his creatures. Then
he gives vent to his hatred towards a certain portion
of his children upon whose brows he has imprinted an
indelible mark of inferiority, and delivers them over to
their brethren—his favorite sons—to do with them as
they will. By virtue of his commission, they rob, and
torture,and defile them, provide separate styes for them
in bis holy temples, (lest his more immediate presence
should be insulted by their contiguity,) refuse to trav
el with them, or to eat with them, and make them, in
compliance with his revealed commandments, as Sa
maritans and as lepeis unto them. Then he stands
by and gloats upon the miseries of those of his children
who are thrust into the dungeons, or hanged upon the
gibbets which lie has ordained and sanctified. Again
he mingles in the raplure of the strife where one por
tion of his family are arrayed against another, maim
ing and destroying each other by every contrivance
of devilish enginery which the ingenuity of man can
devise. Here it is observable that both parties claim
him as of their side ; but, however this may be, he is
always in the end found with the stronger party, with
out respect to the rights of the quarrel. Now he is
seen fighting the battles of freedom with Washington
against George 111., and again siding with the slave
masters in their crusade against Nat. Turner. Now
he serves on board the British fleet when Admiral
Codrington ‘ went it'* against the Turkish navy at
Navarino, thus establishing the independence of
Greece; and anon he joins with the Grand Duke Con
stantine to restore the reign of order in Warsaw. In
short, the God of the American people is one of like
passions with themselves, only differing from his wor
shippersin boundless power to gratify his propensities.
This is the Divinity which the State, and the Church,
and the Priesthood have set up, and which they com
mand all mankind to fall down and worship, in pain of
everlasting torments. It is to such a Being as this
that the steeple-crowned edifices which are sprinkled
with a liberal hand over the land, are upreared. It is
to perform his due liturgy and solemn ceremonial
service, that the numerous order of men are set apart,
by separate education and the laying on of holy hands,
* Alluding to the then magic words said to have
been written by the late King, then D. of Clarence
and Lord High Admiral, to Sir Edward Codrington,
in reply to his application for instructions touching
the Turkish fleet, ‘go it, Ned,' which produced the
battle of Navarino, and the final deliverance of Greece
from the Turks.
)he influence of which we see on every side of
us. Whatever may be their diversities of opinion
—fatal to the eternal happiness of the unbeliever —us
to the constitution of the Godhead, the mode of apply
ing the waters ofbaptisim, the qualification for the
mysterious rites of religion, the damnation of infants,
or the final perseverance of the saints, —still, in these
important and practical views of the Divine char
acter, and of the duty of conformity unto it, they are
(with a few obscure exceptions) all of one heart and
one mind. Those who deny that their Divinity is
the True God, they denounce as infidels. If any of
their ecclesiastical folds assert that they arc but idola
ters, worshipping they know not what, and, denying
them the Christian character which they claim, go
^orth from amongst them, shaking off the dust of their
feet as a testimony against them, they gnash upon
them with their teeth, and hurl after them their im
potent fulminations of excommunication and excision
from the body of Christ.
Such being the popular theology of the land, we
cannot be surprised that it makes men like unto itself,
or rather that it is the true reflection of what is in the
hearts of wicked men. The religion of the land is
tl»e utterance of what is in the heart of the people of
the land; and it is only to be amended by the regen
eration of that heart. And this is only to be done by
the continual application to it of Divine Truth—by
the continual preaching of the Unknown God in the
ears of the people. This preaching, to be effectual
must be shown forth in the lives of those who profess
to be the true worshippers. It is in the creature that
the Creator is glassed, that men may discern him.
To overthrow the superstition which is destroying
this people, it is necessary that a gospel should be
preached every day, by every true believer, giving
utterance to the ideal of the Divine character which
has formed itself in the soul. The false God can only
be displaced by the True God. The Demon of War,
and Slavery, and Tyranny, and Revenge, can only be
dethroned by the God of Peace, and Freedom, and
Mercy, and Forgiveness. The gospel ofsuch a Deity
can only be preached by those who show forth their
allegiance by their resemblance to him. This is the
method of reform which Jesus taught, when he said,
‘ Be ye perfect, even as your Father which is in Heav
en is perfect.’ The history of the world proves that
this is the only way in which men can be made hap
pier. The opposite way of attempting to improve
upon and amend the Divine method has been tried in
every shape ever since the creation, and without effect.
The true reformer will endeavor, not to make his idea
of the Divinity to conform to his own passions and
infirmities, but to approach himself, as nearly as he
may, to the highest conceptions of the Divine Being
that he can attain. He should strive to look upon all
the evil and the evil-doers in the world, as those eyes
that are too pure to behold iniquity, look upon them,
and to pursue the same mode of exterminating the one
and of regenerating the other. When he sees the pa
tience and long-suffering with which the Father sees
his erring children learning wisdom by long and bit
ter experience, he is also willing to wait the appointed
time. When the laws of the Governor of the Uni
verse are violated, he does not sweep the offender
out of existence, or inflict upon him an arbitrary pun
ishment as an example to others; but he leaves him
to the correction of those penalties inseparably an
nexed, in the very nature of things, to every infringe
ment of law, and which penalties Omnipotence itselj
could not remit. He erects no court but that of con
science, appoints no executioners but the guilty pas
sions of the offender, and annexes no punishments to
crime, but their necessary consequences, which do
their work of pain in love alone, having no purpose
but the reformation and happiness of the erring party.
The Divine Being has no selfish ends to gain in his
administration of government. He seeks his own
happiness only in promoting the happiness of others.
He has no coward fears, no false dignity, no selfish
purposes to consult. In his dispensation of the nec
essary blessings of life, he shows no partiality even
in the favor of the good. His rain descends, and his
sun shines, as well upon the evil as upon the good.
He seeks to win the erring back to obedience and hap
piness by offices of love and kindness. Though He
does not attempt to compel a forced obedience, resting
on base fears from his children, neither does He rest
in a state of-Epicurean quietism, not troubling Him
self about their welfare. He is ever speaking to them
in the recesses of their inmost souls, if they will but
cease from the noisy business or tumultuous pleasures
of life, and listen to His voice. All nature, which is
but His sign and visible manifestation, is never silent,
but ever proclaims His wisdom and goodness, and ex
horts the prodigal of earth to return to obedience and
happiness. All the Divine words which have come
down through the ages, spoken by bard or sage or
prophet or apostle, speak of Him and of his love. In
proportion as men have become like Him, have their
words been words of power, and their actions deeds of
might. It was this Divinity of nature (hat made the
misunderstood, despised, hated, crucified Nazarene
the Teacher of the race. Men have seen in him the
signs that he had been with God—for he was God
like Thence derived he his power over the univer
sal human heart in every age and under every sky.
Though the governing few hated and at last killed
him, yet the common people heard him gladly, and
his words have sunk deep into the bosoms of mankind,
for they were a seed suited to the soil, and will ever
spring up more and more abundantly, as the ages roll
away. They who would share with him in the bles
sed work of blessing others, must do as he did, and
seek for Truth at the Fountain-head of Truth, and
dispense it in a Godlike spirit. They must make
themselves like the Father, before they can be fitted
to be the dispensers of His highest blessings to their
brethren. In proportion to their Godlikeness will be
their success and their happiness.—e. q.
Uj” No other comment on the following articles is
needed than the remark that they are copied from the
editorial columns of the New-England Puritan. They
are certainly instructive I
Hypocrisy of Wicked Men.
The visible church is far from having a monopo
ly of hypocrisy. Most of the mischief which is done
in the world, is done under some specious pretence
of good. The conspiracy formed by the Illuminati
of France and Germany, for the annihilation of all
religion and law, professed to be a scheme of broad
and comprehensive philanthropy. The spirit of in
fidelity which begat the reign of Terror in France,
and deluged the streets of Paris with the noblest
blood of the kingdom, claimed to be a reforming and
benevolent spirit. The Bolingbrokes, Humes, and
Gibbons of the father land, professed to be laboring
for the freedom and happiness of the race. And if
his own pretensions were to be received, Tom
Paine was a greater philanthropist than Howard.
Now, with these and similar facts before us, we
are not to be surprised, if we find the schemes of
wicked men in these days, put forth with the same
boastful pretensions to philanthropy. When the
trancendentalist offers to take away the God of the
Bible, and give us the god of the Pantheist—when
the Parkerite offers to take away the inspiration of
the Scriptures, and give us the inspiration of every
one—when the non-resistant offers to remove from
us all the protection of law, and reduce society to
chaos—when the Garrisonite tenders his aid to
disband all churches, and silence the voice of their
ministry—each in his way is only carrying forward
‘ the benevolent enterprises of the age.’ If we call in
question the benevolence of the scheme, we are set
down upon the list of slanderers.
Now, as to the fathers of these several schemes, we
would desire to express ourselves in all the charity
the case admits of, and believe them to be honest
in their purpose; i. e., the real dupes of their own
hypocrisy: and yet the hypocrisy in the case is none
the less real. Their really believing infidelity to be
Christianity, and malignity to be benevolence, does
not make it so. Their schemes themselves are
based on a false pretence; and the peace of society
never can have rest on a durable basis, till the mass
of the people consent, to dispense with a share of
their credulity and gullibility, and to apply a simple
rule giveq by Christ, to test all pretensions of re-
THE LIBERATOR.
Charles Dickens.
If Charles Dickins, when he has returned to his
home, does not give the Americans a regular blow
ing up, it will be an instance of forbearance wor
thy of all honorable mention, and which finds no
parallel in the annals of the Halls, the Trollopes,
and the Maryatts who have visited our shores.
Whatever cause might have been given them for
their remarks upon us, we will not now stop to in
quire, but it is certain that sufficient has been given
him, for the most severe and caustic animadversion.
It is really humiliating, to witness the fawning, the
sycophancy, the gross adulation, and the toadeyism,
to which his arrival amongst us has given birth, and
which must be as nauseous and unpalatable to him,
as it is unworthy of us. We do not mean to say
<that such has been the universal or even the gener
al bearing of the people towards him, but it has
been so with numbers, sufficiently so, and especi
ally among some who have thrown themselves most
prominently in his way, to produce an impression, if
any thing could do it, extremely unfavorable to our
national character.
Some, who are not obnoxious to the charge of syc
ophancy, have, nevertheless, seemed to consider him
as some strange animal, some nondescript, some
monstrosity, some raree show, to be stared at, com
mented upon, and criticised. One of this class in
formed the public that he had called upon Boz, and,
as if it was something unexpected, that he found
him quite civil and polite, and not at all puffed up or
distant in his manners, and that his lady, too, was
quite amiable and pretty. Others have not con
tented themselves with such general remarks, but
have indulged in the most minute descriptions of his
formers and professed philanthropists. By their
fruits ye shall know them.
The Christian world, after all its severe experi
ence, is slow to obey the injunction of Christ. Be
ware of men. Though so often told that wolves
may be expected to wear the dress of sheep, thou
sands’are ready to listen to every destroyer, merely
because he says that he is doing a great and good
work. The fruits of past experience are cast under
feet. The fact that a thousand and one predecessors
have came in the same way, and been found to be
false, goes for nothing. The old proverb, a burnt
child dreads the fire, is belied. There are many
who seem by habit to have acquired a liking for be
ing imposed upon; and to such an extent has this
deceivableness prevailed, that if all the Garrison
ites, Mormonites, Millerites and what not, should be
taken out of the way, the wants of the people would
soon replace them with others of the like stamp.
A Type of the Times.
We did not expect to see the plain principles of
the Bible denounced as Draconian in such a pa
per as the Mercantile Journal—a paper extensively
patronized by the friends of religion and morality.
A late number of that paper contains^the following:
‘The philanthropists will rejoice to learn that at
tempts are making in the Legislature of Pennsylvania,
to abolish capital punishment in that State. It is time
It is time that the Draconian code should be abolished
throughout the country.’
The philanthropy exhibited in the existing efforts
to abolish capital punishment, belongs to a species
quite common in this day—a philanthropy based on
infidel principles. This philanthropy had its origin
in the idea that all punishment, under both human
and divine government, must be reformatory, and
seek the good of the offender. Consequently Infi
dels, Unitarians and Universalists, are foremost in
pleading for the abolition of capital punishment.
For they have a great interest to undermine the
Bible, and secure the adoption of a cardinal princi
ple of their system in the legislation of the country.
The truth is, this is a religious question. And
though it must necessarily have a discussion in leg
islatures, on the same basis with questions of a
purely political nature, no friend of the Bible can
consistently give his influence against the principle,
that— ‘ Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall
his blood be shed.’ Much less can one stigmatize
this principle given from the mouth of (sod as Dra
conian, and be guiltless before God.
After writing the above, our eye fell upon the fol
lowing, from another number of the same paper, to
which we cordially subscribe :
‘Our Constitution and laws are placed upon the all
wise and immutable laws of God, as made known to
us in his Holy Word, and the nearer our conduct
corresponds to his precepts, the more fully shall we
sustain and carry out the true democratic principle,—
“ Do unto others as ye would that they should do unto
you.” ’
O’ Look at the assertion again— ‘ Our constitution
and laws are placed upon the all-wise and immutable
laws of God ’ I I—&e. &c.
M ISCELLANY.
From the Christian Reflector.
Four Thousand Dollars Lost.
A lady belonging to the Baptist church, and who
resided in the vicinity cf New Hampton in this
State, had made her will, giving all her property to
the Baptist Board for Foreign Missions, but finding
that Board so wedded to slavery, she made another,
and gave it to the Freewill Baptist Board for For
eign Missions ; with directions to expend what part
thereof they might think best in the cause of Abo
lition. The lady recently died, and her executor is
now collecting her debts, which amount to about
four thousand dollars, and has notified the legatees
of the bequest. Within a few days, they have had a
meeting in this village, and contemplate expending
one half the money in supporting Anti-Slavery lec
turers in New Hampshire and Maine. Here is a
dead loss of S4OOO to the Baptist Foreign Mission
Society ; and for what ? For the good reason that
the Board of Managers of said society lend the
whole weight of their influence to crush the poor
slave ; lend their influence to support the tyrant
monsters in sundering the nearest and dearest ties
of our common nature; lend their influence to make
thousands of heathen at home, and send them to hell
from this land of gospel light, for the bare hope of
evangelizing one heathen in foreign lands. How
many such four thousands will it take to balance
the ten thousand which last spring was promised
from Alabama, if the Triennial Convention would
expel the abolitionists from the Missionary Board ?
And here I would ask, where is that SIO,OOO, which
was said to be locked up, but ready to be paid over
to the Board upon the aforesaid terms ? The terms
were complied with ; but where is the money ? I have
been looking into the Magazine every month since
the meeting of the Convention, to see if the prom
ise has been fulfilled, till I am satisfied that they
never had it to pay over; it was one of the pious
men-stealer’s boasting promises, made to be broken.
How many more $2,000 and $4,000 the Board will
lose by their subserviency to the slaveholding por
tion of the Baptist church, time alone will show.
JOHN B. WOOD.
Great Falls, N. H. Feb. 16th, 1842.
Lord Morpeth.
The Richmond Enquirer of Tuesday last, speaks
thus of Lord Morpeth :—
Lord Morpeth arrived in Richmond on Saturday
evening, and left it, on last evening, in the cars for
the South. He is proceeding to Charleston, and
further South, and perhaps to some of the West In
dia Islands. He may return to Virginia in the
course of the summer, and visit our springs, and
view our mountain scenery. But as he is spoken of
as a candidate for Dublin in the House of Commons,
his sojourn in the United States may be cut short by
the necessity of his returning home. Lord M. is
one of the most liberal statesmen, and popular and
rising politicians in the British Empire. He has a
strong partiality for the Americans, and expresses
the sincerest desire to preserve the harmony between
the two countries. He is struck with the great
scale on which every thing is constructed in Amer
ica—with the immense extent of our country—the
extraordinary volume of our rivers, &c. He pro
nounces the Potomac to be the noblest river he has
ever seen—and he has visited a great part of Europe,
France, Russia, &c. &c.
He is travelling in the United States on our rail
roads and steamboats, in the simplest style—with
out equipage, without any species of state, without
even a servant. In his manners, he is equally un
assuming. He affects no airs ; and appears only like
a plain, unpretending but polished gentleman, of
good sense —taking a deep interest in all that he
sees, speaking of our country with great liberality,
and never boasting of his own.
His Lordship arrived at Charleston on Wednesday
last.
(O’ The Enquirer forgot to add that Lord Morpeth
is an abolitionist !
person, figure, dress, and address, sometimes with
thp apparent intention of placing him in a ludicrous
point of view before the public.
It appears to us that this is all wrong, and evin
ces a want both of judgment and self-respect.
Dickins comes among us, simply as a private gen
tleman—with an enviable literary reputation, it is
true—desirous of seeing the people and the country
in their native aspects .and it is wrong to inflict
persecutions upon him. He has a right, from his
character and his own gentlemanly deportment, to
be treated as a gentleman—to be treated as we,
ourselves, would wish to be, were we placed, like
him, among strangers in a foreign land. The gross
adulation, the slavering, the daubing with untem
pered mortar, to which he has been subjected, are
embarrassing and disgusting to him, and degrading
to us. Offensive personal remarks respecting him
are clownish and insulting, and evince a want of
that courtesy which the rules of common good
breeding require.— Worcester Spy.
Mobile, Feb. 1842.
The Mayor yet refuses to order all the black men
out of the vessels in the bay, (25 miles distant,) and
as the district judge has resigned, no compulsory pro
cess can be had, until the Governor appoints a success
or, whose duty, it is said, will be to require the May
or to execute.the law or resign.
Found Guilty. —George W. Danley and Thomas
Bryan, who were some time since sent from Philadel
phia on the requisition of the Governor of Louisiana,
charged with assisting, aiding and abetting the escape
of a slave, have been tried in New-Orleans, and con
victed. Their sentence will be from two to twenty
years in the Penitentiary.
‘No Human Government.' —The New-Haven Her
ald says, a Mrs. Tuttle, of Prospect, was committed to
jail on Saturday, by the Supreme Court at New-Ha
ven, * lor refusing to testify, on the ground ofconscien
tious scruples, she denying the jurisdiction of the
Court and all human laws She still remains in jail,
and thinks the accommodations pretty good for a
martyr.'
Sheriffs Officers Abducted. —The steamboat Bristol,
which had been detained in Pittsburg by the sheriff,
under claims for upwards of $5,000, cleared out on
Friday morning, with two of the sheriff officers on
board of her. The sheriff had placed officers on board
for several days, and the boat is supposed to have left
while the men were asleep. The Pittsburg American
says the Sheriff has sent out to New-Orleans in
pursuit.
Judge Upsher has replied to Mr. Botts on the sub
ject in controversy between them. It has now be
come a matter oi inferences and qualifications. Mr.
U. does not deny that he has been in favor of dis
union under certain anticipated circumstances. He
only contends that he was not so without qualifica
tion.
The Washington correspondent of the New-York
Commercial, applies to Mr. Adams the following
lines, descriptive of the stout old warrior, Minotti, in
the siege of Corinth :
‘Though aged, he is so iron of limb,
Few of our youth can cope with him;
And the foemen whom, singly, he keeps at bay,
Outnumber his thin hairs of silver grey.’
Perhaps the comparison might be carried further,
and Mr. Adams, like the old Venetian commander,
be made to blow up the whole Congress, just as Mi
notti blew up the church at Corinth.
It is not surprising that Messrs. Wise, Rhett & Co.
should be opposed to a dissolution of the Union. Such
an event would deprive those gentlemen and their
party of the services of their while slaves at the
North—which equal, or perhaps out number the whole
of their black ones at the South.
At the great and splendid levee given by the Pres
ident of the United States on the occasion of his
daughter’s marriage, not a drop of wine or other al
coholic drinks were to be obtained, and nothing but
cold waler. This is an example for the whole coun
try- .
Baron Rothschild has been seized with sudden and
dangerous illness. The operations on the Bourse
were seriously affected by this.
The King of Prussia, with a retinue of distinguish
ed persons, is about to visit England and Scotland.
Gen. James Appleton of Portland, has been nomi
nated as the candidate of the liberty party for Gover
nor of Maine.
The New Genesee Farmer,
AND GARDENER’S JOURNAL.
VOLUME THREE —FOR 1842.
THE Cheapest Agricultural Paper in the Union :
6 Large Pages Monthly, (with engtavings,) only
20 Cents per year! *
HENRY COLMAN, Editor.
(Late Agricultural Commissioner of the Slate of Mas
sachusetts^ and Editor of the N. England Farmer.)
Grateful for the extensive patronage which the New
Genesee Fanner has received during the past year,
the proprietor now has the satisfaction of announcing
that he has made such arrangements for the coming
year as cannot fail to be highly gratifying to the read
ers of the paper, and secure for it a still more exten
sive circulation.
Desiring to make it the most useful and widely cir
culating paper in the Union, the proprietor has en
gaged the services of the celebrated and eminent ag
ricultural writer and orator, HENRY COLMAN, well
known as the late Agricultural Commissioner of the
State of Massachusetts, and formerly editor of the
New-England Farmer. Depending on the co-opera
tion and support of the friends of agriculture in the
Empire State and the Great West, Mr. Colman has
consented to leave the field where he has labored
with so much honor and success, and locate at Roch
ester, where, through the medium of the Genesee
Farmer, he expects to find a more extensive field of
usefulness.
Post Masters and their Assistants are authorized,
and respectfully solicited to act as Agents, and remit
subscriptions for the Farmer. The low price at which
it is published will not allow of much pecuniary com
pensation to Agents, but it is believed they will find
a reward in the benefits which result from the circu
lation of such periodicals in their neighborhoods.
(CF Persons ordering papers are requested to strict
ly observe the Terms, and be careful to write plainly
the names of subscribers, their Post-Office, County,
and State; and in all cases to send the money with
the order, so that the perplexity of keeping accounts
may be avoided.
M. B. BA TEH AM, Proprietor.
TERMS.—If current money is sent, (such as New-
York or New-England bills,) commission will be al
lowed as follows : —
Seven copies for $3 00; twelve copies for $5 00;
twenty-five copies for $lO 00 ; payment always to be
made in advance.
No commission will be allowed, if uncurrent money
is sent.
Address BATEHAM & COLMAN,
January 28. Rochester, New- York.
BOSTON ALMANAC FOK 1842.
Just published by Samuel N. Dickinson, 52 Wash
ington-street, and for sale by Thomas Groom
&. Co. 82, State-street, and by the Booksellers
generally.
THIS number contains 8 pages more than any pre
vious number, The Memoranda of Events through
out the past year are uncommonly full, and the work
generally much more fuil and complete than hereto
fore. There are nearly 50 pages of the Business Di
rectory for Boston, and which give the names of tho
persons, and the places at which they keep, of all en
gaged in professions or business. This department of
the Almanac has been found by the business commu
nity both useful and convenient, and has received
throughout the country the general approbation of all,
as also the universal commendation of the Public
Press. The Table of Occupations in Boston will, on
reference to the Almanac, show an aggregate ofabout
6000 persons engaged in business in the city; and this
department of the Almanac will be found a complete
Directory to the store, counting-room or shop of each.
In addition, the Almanac contains the following
matters, all of which will be found of general interest,
and useful for daily reference :
CONTENTS — ALPHABETICALLY ARRANGED.
Banks; Calender pages, etc.; Census, 1840; City
Government of Boston, Lowell and Salem ; Counting
Room Almanac ; Courts in Mass.; Custom House;
Eclipses, etc. ; Events in Boston ; Fire Department;
Fires in Boston; General Events; Gold and Silver
Coin; Indexes; Insurance Offices; Mayors of Bos
ton; Militia Force of United States; Newspapers in
Boston; Omnibuses; Packets, stations, etc.; Post
Office; Preface; Public Buildings; Public Offices;
Rates of Pilotage ; Sheriff’s; Societies ; State Govern
ment; Stages, routes, etc.; Streets and Avenues;
Tidas; United States Government; Wards; Ward'
Rooms; Wharves; Worcester, Public Alen and Insti
tutions of. jan 17
For Sale at the Anti-Slavery Office, 25. Cornhill,
A FEW Medals of Father Mathew.
IjL Jan, 11th.
VOLUME XII.—NO. 9.
Improvements on a Valuable and Important
Discovery.
Mr. T. JINNING 8, Jr., Surgeon Dentist,
INFORMS the public that he has completed a se
ries of laborious and expensive experiments in im
proving the celebrated Lithodeon, and in presenting
it to their notice, is happy to state that his success in
being thus enabled to relieve much of the suffering re
sulting from a neglect of those highly important or
gans, (the teeth,) has exceeded his most sanguine an
ticipations, and that the
IMPROVED LITHODEON
is destined to become one of the most popular and use
ful teeth preservatives ever discovered, there is not
the^mallest shadow of doubt. The superior advan
tages to be realized by the use of this article, when
teeth are too far decayed or too lender to plug with
gold, silver, or any other substance, are manifold,
among which the following are most prominent. In
the first place, being introduced into the cavity of
teeth in a soft state, it causes neither pain or irritation.
2d. When a tooth is more than two-thirds gone,
while the roots re nib in firm and sound, it can be
moulded so as to restore its original shape. 3d. In
less than two hours, it assumes a texture as hard astho
enamel of the tooth itself, thereby forming a mastica
ting surface harder than gold, silver, or platina. 4th.
It effectually resists the most powerful agents to
which the filling of teeth is subjected, without oxida
tion.
Nothing more need be said in favor of this article
than that over two thousand teeth have been re
stored to perfect usefulness thereby, for which no othj
er remedy seemed possible, except extraction.
Specimens of teeth filled with the above material
will be kept on hand, and the public are invited to
call and examine them. Mineral teeth manufactured
and set in so perfect a manner as to baffle detection.
Teeth filled with gold ; also, cleansed and extracted
in the most faithful manner.
Every operation warranted to give perfect satisfac
lion. Office 22 School-street, at Harding’s Gallery.
The following recommendation from Dr. Mann, a
member of the Boston Medical Association, is respect
fully submitted to public consideration : —
‘ Mr. Thomas Jinnings, Jr. having been in my em
ploy between two and three years, in various depart
ments of dentistry, and especially in manufacturing
and preparing artificial teeth, it gives me pleasure to
bear witness to his ability and fidelity, and to recom
mend him to the public as a competent and faithful
dentist. Daniel Mann, M. D.,
Surgeon Dentist, 16 Summer-street.
Boston, Jan. 1842.’
DR. WATSON.
Mr. Editor:—Though you seem to speak no
louder than jour neighbors, your utterance is heard
a great way : therefore I wish to make use of your
powers to communicate sundry remarks to the public,
before whom an individual stands accused, to whose
superior medical skill, with the blessing of heaven,
I certainly owe my life and good health ; and not my
self alone, but two of my daughters
About two years since I was confined to my bed,
and had been for several months, with a scrofulous
affection, which wholly deprived me of the use of my
arms and lower limbs. After being told, by my fami
ly physician and others, that they knew of nothing
they could prescribe which would be likely to benefit
me, a neighbor of mine, who had been cured by Dr.
Watson of a like complaint, advised me to apply to
him, which I did, and he cured me. Since which
time I have spent several months in Europe, and been
variously exposed, without a return of the complaint.
Here I would say, that it is but charitable in me to
believe that my family physician did his best, and
was sincere in his remarks. This being the case, it is
easy to decide who has the skill. Furthermore, mine
appears to be but one cure of this formidable disease
among many more that have been cured bj Dr. W.,
which entitles him to some credit, while his enemies
would give him none. And why has he enemies?
I answer that there is nothing more easily understood ;
that it is in consequence of his effecting cures after
others of the profession fail. Yet other pretences are
set forth, and by whom ? Il will soon be made to ap
pear, I trust.
Of my daughters, they both had the smallpox, and
in the most loathsome manner. I did not indulge a
thought that they could be cured, for a while, at least;
and when I did, it seemed that life would scarcely be
worth having, as they would be so disfigured by what
is generally called pits. But Dr. Watson told me nay,
as, said he, the way I manage the like cases, they are
cured, and no pits are made. This I could not credit,
until the result obliged me to, which was as he told
me. They are both well, and no apparent injury re*
mains in consequence of the sickness.
The Doctor’s deportment to me and to my family
has been wholly agreeable.
Here, readers, judge for yourselves.
Feb. 2nd, 1842. JOSEPH BARROWSCALE.
It appears to be the candid opinion of people gener
ally, who have received Dr. Watson’s treatment, (and
many .there are,) that it has made more permanent
cures, and resulted in more good, than any other, in
the same space of lime. Hence arises his extensive
business from the influence of its many friends.
February 11th.
Now is the Time.
The Finest Head of Hair produced by
Wyeth’s Cream of Lillies.
ALL who have used it, acknowledge its superiority
for the embellishment and growth of the Eair. It
gradually changes the color of red, gray, or light hair,
to a beautiful dark. Nothing can surpass this Cream
for dressing the hair ; it not only promotes its growth,
but preserves its falling off’, or turning grey ; and to
those wearing curls, either real or false, its qualities
will be manifest by the first trial ; nor do they get out
of curling in damp weather, or after dancing
Also Wyeth’s Curling Cream, Milk of Roses, Ex
tract of Roses, Bloom of Roses for the skin, Honey
Water, Florida Water, Cologne Wate, &c. &c.
For sale only by the appointed agent, A. S. JOR
DAN, No. 2, Milk-street, secund door from Washing
ton-street.
Boston, Jan. 28, 1842.
Valuable Register for 1842.
JAMES LORING, 132 Washington St-has just pub
lisLed the Mass. Register, for 1842, containing
the Bankrupt Law, the New Tariff of U. S. with the
Tariff Law of 1841, the State Legislature, the 27th
Congress, the Army and Navy Officers, Consuls,
Militia Officers, City Officers of Boston, Salem and
Lowell, Ministers, Colleges, Charitable Societies,
Bank and Insurance Companies, Post Masters, Justi
ces, Lawyers, Census ofU. S. and of Towns in Mass,
and a List of Members of the Mass. Medical Society,
&c. &c.
Anti-Slavery Wafers.
JUST PUBLISHED, and for sale at No. 25, Corn
hill; Anti-Slavery Wafers, designed for seal?
ing letters, &c. They constitute a valuable addition
to th" means of usefulness already possessed by abo
litionists. Each sheet contains ninety-eight appro
priate mottoes, selected with great care.
Price six cents single, 25 sheets for one dollar.
SEVERAL bound volumes of the Liberator remain
on hand, at No. 25 Cornhill. To those who are
desirous of preserving a complete file, the present af
fords a favorable opportunity. ts
JUST RECEIVED,
and for sale at No. 25 Cornhill,
A FEW copies of the second edition of the por
trait of Lucretia Mott, a beautiful and correct
likeness; also, copies of anew portrait of George
Thompson, the most correct ever sold in this city.
Bound volumes of the Monthly Offering, embellished
with the likness of Thompson, may also be procured
as above, at a reasonable price.
AGENTS OF THE LIBERATOR.
Massachusetts.—George W. Benson, Northamp
ton; Alvan Ward, Ashburnham.
Rhode-Isl and.—Win. Adams, Pawtucket; —Geo.
S. Gould, Warwick.
Connecticut. —S. S. Cowles, Hartford; —John S.
Hall, East- Hampton.
New-York.—Oliver Johnson, New-York City;—
Charles S. Morton, Albany: —James C. Fuller, Skane
ateles’, —Thomas McClintock, Waterloo; John ll*
Barker, Peru.
Pennsylvania.—H. C. Howell, Alleghany; —J. B.
Vashon, Pittsburg ; —M. Preston, West Grove; —
James Fulton, Jr., Me Williamstown ; —Thomas Peart,
Enterprise ; —Thomas Hambleton, Russelville ; —B.
Kent, Andrew's Bridge; —John Cox, Homorton; —
James M..M’Kim, Philadelphia', Joseph Fulton, Swan.
Ohio.—James Boyle, Rome ; —Charles Olcutt, Me
dina; —Abner G. Kirk, Salem ; —James Austin, At
to at er ; —Lot Holmes, Columbiana; —Joseph A. Dug
dale, Cortsville ; —Dr. E. D. Hudson, Oberlin.
[see first page.]
FROM THE POSTMASTER GENERAL.
Remittances by Mail. —‘ A Postmaster may enclose
money in a letter to the publisher of a newspaper, to
p^ the subscription of a third person, and frank the
letter if written by himself’
O’ Agents who remit money should always desig
Rate the persons to whom it is to be credited.