letters i-;d ir.ftruifcion t6 be lent by poll
The communication was cafy from all parts
of the United States to Congrefs, and
could be equally fa to any place where the
poll goes. There could be no doubt but
the Hates would pay as much attention
to the interefls of this dißrift, it' it con
tinued undei* their juriidiction, ?.s ever it
had done, Be more, by not fttWring it to en.
dare any injury Which it cptiid prevent, con
grefs lii-_m.il immediately take'the juriidic
tion. 'l'b- Ung'iiage and in-anwg of gcji-j
tktnen could be well underßood: gentler
xo-en were called tofupport the meafure with
%ner;ry, whilft they had Rrength. 4o doubt
Mr. Maco.i laid, this was the principal
ground of their endeavors to putt* the mea
sure, although the legiflatuie had but juR
met here, and there had been fcarce time to
know what would be the proper regulations
to adopt. But he would with to remind
them that although the law might be pal Ted,
th's time would not be, tar off when his
friends would be in the minority, and
fome Confiderable alterations might be
made in it.
Mr Macon then proceeded to the detail
of the bill ; he difKkcd the eftablifliment of
a government, the executive and judiciary
of which were in the appointment of the
prefidem of the United States—the former
for three years and the latter during good:
behaviour: and thefe, both governor and! :
judges of the luperior and inferior courts.!
to be paid out of the treafury of the U- ,
nited States. Could it be the wifh of
gentlemen, lie a/ked, to cßablifli in tlit- '
very heart of the United States, and inl. •
mediately under the fye of the govern
ment, fitch a principle as that thefe rulers
Ihould be independent and entirely abqvu
the controul of the people ? He declar
ed that if he fhould be in Gongrefs again
"and as long fits he ever flv.uld be in the
ho life, he Ihould couflantly make it his
duty to exert himfelf for the appeal of fo
had a principle, and have the governor, the
jud.-es and the legitlature immediately
amenable to the people. Another thing
he Ihould alfo ever be oppofeu
to, was the manner of this houfe of re
prcfentatives and fenate being chofen,am>
time of their continuancp Why Ihould
they be eledtcd here for two years, when
in all the hate legislatures, he believ
ed they were cholen annually, except"
two, in one of which they were elected every
fix months, and in the other every two
years. A greater abfurdity Rill was evin
ced in the time for which, and the manner
how the fenators were chofen—fix years,
and by eledtors. Although in thefe things
there wa»a fimilarity to the choice of the
general government, he would aik what
fimilarity there could be in the two govern
ments ? In the one there is a vaR extent!
of country, and a numerous population ;
in the other a final 1 population j a fmall
trad of country, and an almoß general
knowledge by every one indivi
dual in it. He doubted whether the le
giflature of the union could at all delegate
powers to this local government, but whe
ther or not he coyld fee no kind of ne
ceflTit'/ during the prefent feffion to a flume
them : the government would ,;o on as
well as before, and he had 110 doubt the
city would continue in that rapid Rate of
profperitv gentlemen had witneffed fince
they arrived here.
wmrmm ev.<i.na»«»i— j—uMWumiiiiWi
; i;; LOTS.
IN different eligible fnuations in the City for
Sale or JLeafe on ground rent—Likewise,
100 Qafks infpefted Rhode Ijland
LIM E.
A number of Quarter and hilf
of MADEIRA WIN!., of » fuperior quality, by
JOHN SnCKNEY
At his building oppofite Rhodes Tavern Prefi
<Jciit's
Wafhirigton, Marck i, 1801. eoptf.
~ro BE rented.
A TWO' STORY BRICK DWELMNG
.v\ tiO'J E, with a large garden w<ll incloti d,
a liable for 4 horfes, a Co »ch Houfe, & other office
h cufes, with a good wrll of water in the Yard,
fi.oft elegantly fituated infquare 104, in the City ot
Wafliington, for terms apply to
Wm. ICING.
WHO will accommodate through the enfuing
■i tmmer a few GEN i EEL BOARDERS, by
tie day, wetk, or month, at hi* prefent dwel
li ig Houfe, 4 doom feouih of Ma. STI-LIjE'S
1 laiel, 011 Capitol Hill.
March 13, 1801
TOR-sale
S EVENT? JHOUS A N
LATH S,
Enquire at this Office.
WASHINGTON CITY. \
—
J WEDNESDAY, March 25, 1801.
i —
.1
OFFICIAL.
William Kilty, Chief Judge of the Circuit
Court of the Diltrift of Columbia.
Daniel Carroll Brent, Marflul of the
fame.
John Thomson Mason, Attorney of do.
| The Court of the Diftriifl of Columbia
,has made the following appointments.
Uriah Forreft, Clerk of the court of
Washington.
George Deneale, Clerk of the court of
Alexandria.
Daniel Douglafs, Infpe£tor of Flour for
the county of Alexandria.
ERRONEOUS STATMENT'S
CORRECTED. «.
Mr. MadlsON, as dated in a Philadel
phia print, has not arrived..at the feat otj
government ; nor has Mr. Dexter retired t
for one month trom the duties of the office 1
•i Secretary of the Treafury. r
Mr. Muhlkn rkko is not- appointed
Collector of the Port of Philadelphia in c
the room of George Latimer. It
Mr. Dawson is not appoint "i Minifter r
to Portugal in the room of Mr. Smith.
Moil of the lUtpments pre tented to th't-1_
[Public by the prints of Baltimore, Phila-'i
delphia, and New-York, though abound
ing in mi (takes, arc declared to be from u
■ ■»- , . n I
luthoVity. rrom this . circurr.uance, • a'<
weight is attached to them, which will be i
apt to produce extenfive mifconception.;;
It is fuggefted whether a regard to cor-'t
reiflnefs does riot dictate a dull-rent mode'i
of ftatement, 1
t , — \ 5
iLxtract of a letter to the Editor, from i
PA RXS,
u The Inflitutions for the promotion|]
of Science are here aupuiihingly great— <
The national inftitute, the garden of plants«•;
the fchool of mines, the Polytechnic
fchool, See. &.C. form without doubt the :
. .... ... •
grswfiu aflemblage ot leientific inflitutions .
in exiftence.— There is ore disadvantage,
however, thev reft Under, particularly fori
a foreigner who has but a few months to:
remain at Paris, that prevents the enjoy-j
ment of all of them at once; their ex
treme diftance from one another. The 80-:
tanic garden, which is the greateft aflem
blage of obje&S of natural hiflory in t£-|
iftence, is at one extremity of Paris ; andj
the fchool of mines, the place wheiy the
chemical and mineralogical le&urei arc
delivered, almofl at the other.
u I have attended a number of meet-'
ings of the national in dilute ; they are
conduced with much candor, and the molt
; animated difcuiTions often take place."
" Extract of a fetter from a correspondent
at Hamburg. {
After fome remarks on the controverted!
order of the Illuminati, he lays :—!
" It is, however, a lubjeft her* that has
almoft ceafed t be talked ©I.—When we
are _ dune thinking of it ht America, I
fuppole the E.npefof of China will begin
to take alarm at the fe£l. At Stockholm,
f they talked to me of a new secf, that was
making ftrides in America, called " Shak
. ing Quakers". You fee on each fide the
water, they Sometimes begin to talk of the
importance of things, when they are al
moll forgotten in*their native places."
- NOTICE. |
F STREET NORTH.
A meeting of the Inhabitants of F
[■ Street, in the City of Walhington, is par
ticularly requefted at Mr. Rliode's, Little
Hotel on Thurfday evening next at 6
o'clock P. M. en bufuiefs of Importance
; to the Inhabitants and Proprietors.
' Waflungton, March %5.
; In the Firft Weftem DiltiiA of Maflsu:hu
fetts, an Election has been held for a
Member of the Federal Iloufc of Repre
sentatives, on which the Boflon Cent}-
nel fays :—»
" We have feen the votes of 22 town 1 ,
irt this diftrift. They are for Judge BA
CON 1710—Mr. WILLIAMS 1049.
I here cannot be a doubt of the choice of
Mr. BACON."
A letter from Surinam, dated the 2J
?eb. 1801, 44 About ten days tince four
rrcnch frigates r>f 44 guns, and 2 corvettes
of 22 guns hadfafely landed 1800 troops, i
tVom Europe, at Cayenne t and brought in
with them the Englilh Hoop of war fws.l
- of 18 guns aud 17 Englilh and Por
tuguele velfels laden with pruvifionf., tloath
ing, guns, S;c. for the Britilh forces - in tlu
vVeft-Indies ; betides a 1i: n mount in
money. Victor Hugues had according!)
fent here to know if there were any French
pfiioners to be exchanged for thofe taken."
! Letters from the most respectable source
from Cut//3, received at Philadeldelphia
by the Magnet, contain the following in
teresting information :
Cadiz, Jan. 29, 1800.
" By my refpedts of the ) 6th, you will
be acquainted with the deplorable llate to
which this city and the bordering towns
have been reduced by the epidemical dif~
wrmper which prevailed laft fummer.
Thank God the malady has totally difap- ;
peared. Never was this city, notwith-
Itanding all its idles and difappointmentj (
this war reduced to its pre fent milerable
condition.
u The blockade continues with ufual
; gilance, and not even a remote profpetf 1
of permanent peace on the continent; on
the contrary, the corttending powers would
feCm to be in (pired anew with the fpirit ,
of hoilility and dcftrudlion.
44 It is reported a rupture between tbK
country and Portugal, is unavoidabjt. Ii
fadt, preparations are at~ making will
rigor on this fide."
Another letter in Spanifh under date of,
Jan. 27tb, contains the fallowing further
'information, which we have tran(l.-.ted :
■ j '• The reports of the arrival of agene
irahpeace have been various and flattering
'during* the lad week; but the poft of thi- (
day has dillipated our hopes. It bines
advices of 8000 Britilh troops having \
difembarked at Lifbon, for the . urpofe of «■
abetting Portugal, who it teems, has po- F
fitively rejected the concilir.! ry propoli-|
, tions of this court. In conlequence of this J
intelligence, the Spanilh army is row ad j
vanning, by forced marches, to the fron- l
tiers of Portugal ; and two Columns of
French troops, one amounting to 4000, the -
lother 8000, have adlually advanced as far
■as Baycnne. While these important move
.ments are going on. Gen. B^ruadotte,
1 Jwith an army of 45C00, is proceeding
;;again(l the enemy by the *ay of Routil
,,i(-n.—We are of eourfe in hourly expedta
•jti'on of receiving advice of the commence -
i invent! of hoftilities. *
- 44 It is underftood here tit at Great-Bi i
- tain has ottered to enter into an arm-ill ice. .
• Ifor 12 months, on condition that their an?.- ]
-Ibaffadors (bail be admitted to the negocia
- tions in the Gongref. of Lunevilie." *
I Another litter of the foregoing date, con
■ tains the following corroborative infoima
: tion :
44 For fome days we have been very fan
- guine in our expectations of a continental <
• peace <, but the oppofition of England has
t not only prevented this delirable event, but
alio embroiled us with Portugal. Our
troops in all directions are marching rapidly
t againft this power—and the French auxili
aries have adtuallv arrived at Bay on lie.
i 44 You will no doubt, have already heard
of the attempt recently made on the ifecl
Buonaparte. It has been traced to its
origin, and the perpetrators will doubtlefs
. be initantly puniihed.
j 44 By an arrival from Egypt in 20 days,
we learn, that the affairs in tlyat country
Hre very favourable to the interefts of fhe
s ' French.
44 There are continual changes in the
~ miniftry of this crbinet: hut as they do not
affect commerce ic would be fupeiliuous to
_ particularize them.
44 'Fhe trade of this city is quite ftag
nant. Unlefs Providence kindly inter
feres for our relief, we know not to v hat
deeper wretchtdnefs we may he devoted."
MUTi - ■ r, — J -^-T-TT—TT--3CTT—.
? LOTS FOR SALE,
In the City of WasihsgVos.
The SUBSCRIBER offers for Sale a num
ber of v=i!uahlc Lots beautifully fuuate'
5 between the Capitol and the Eafttrn »sranch
L' Alfa a few lots to be let on leafe for ninety
nine years in the vicinity of the Na»y yard.
WILLIAM PROUF.
City of Washington. December ia, 1800 tl
NBA few Tons of good Meadow Hay, on*
Kiln of Bricks, and fome Cotd Wood,
a W. P.
JOHN CHEW THOMAS refpetf
tully informs his Fellow-Citizens of Prince
k 'George's and Anne-Arundel counties in
- eluding the city of Annapolis, that He
• will again faithfully ferve them (if elected)
I n the Congrcfs of the United States.
hlcrch sthy 1801. fit.
CHEAP LUMBER,
FOR SALE,
By the Subfcriber, on realonable terms, either
large or Imall quantities, at his Lumber Yardtt t
the north end of Lamberton, and at the old
Sturgeon pond, above Richards's wharf,
A qUANTMY or
ASSORTED LUMBER, viz.
One and 1-4 inch, 1 1-8, and i do. Yellow
} .he heart boards*—l incii pannel, 1 1-4 do. for
tloors, 1 «io. common, white pine do—2 do.
7 1.4 and 2 x-j do pianks, 1 do. 1-8, and
i-8 do. boards, black walnut—2 do. plank, j
do. 1-2 do. pannel boards, bcdltei>d lttts, poplar
tht whole of the above art well feafuned and
fit lor ule ]—'■C lear heart pinej and lap pin*
.vhire oak, and bilftead, hemlock and white pine
I'cantling, alTbrted—bell kind three feet cedar
fh ingles, dreffed and undiefTed, do tvvoc feet
white pine do.; do. 18 inch cypreft do— Secar
1 ails—— Ado, white pine iawed rttils^*—fhingliog
and piaiftering laths, bed kind ; wliite oak waggon
timber fap p:nc planks, pine one inch boards,
3-4 ctdaf, bi<fl kind, 3-4 white pine, 3-4 fap
pine, l'eafoned weather boanis—A quantity of
h.indfeme chefnut failings, la wed 1 by 3 inches
and from 4to 16 leet long,lor garden fence, &c.
A quantity of chefnut oak polls, dreffe i and
unor tiled • a quantity of cherry boards, a quantity
01 large white oak joicc, a quantity of chefnut
polls—joco feet ol neat beach leantling for tool
(locks— 5000 feet of fickdKicre fcantling fof
; ® inch white oak plank ; 1 inchwhite
oak boards, 3-4 do, do. do.^-25,000 leetfuperior
cherry boards and plank, c!t). very clcar
2 inch white pine plank, 3,000 do. handfeme
be at on w«od bedftead letcs lealoned, ico,ooq
prime North C arolina fliingles, a quantity of alii
plank, ijo tons piaiftet Paris, warranted, 3,000
bufliels belt Virginia pit coal, aoo bofiiel cleans
houie land
j he iubferiber intends, eftabiifhing a Lumber
V arcl at the Federal City ol Waftungton, which
he will regularly tupplied as above—Any
quantities may te agreed lor by contra#, delive
rable,as the purciiai'cr m «y \viill, provided that the
ol delivjry may be comeatable by water
.vith a nav igahle ycfiel— Any quantity that may
be ordered for (hipping abroad, lhail be fuppiwd
with punctuality and diipatch, agreeable to
order.
Gentlemen who are or may be building—wj
well as carpenters who may be under or may
enter into contra&s to build and furnifli the
materials, will find it well worth their attention
to apply as above—Application? may be made
by letter (port paid) or othcrwik, to the fub
fciiber, or lelt with Win. and Anthony M.
Buckley, of Benj. W Alorns and Co. Bier chants,
Philadelphia.
f 0 R S A L£,
A Valuable Tract of
I LA N I),
XjYING in part on the main Richmond road,
a mile lrom the Raj pahanock River, four Miles
below Fridericklbatg, (-n a heaithy and inofi
'agreea le neighbourhood,) coi.taiidrg about five
hundred and tbuty tbiec AC Ri,t> well watered,
uipon tin. laid Trail there are ab.uit two hun
idred ara» lifty acres of Wood Land, the great
Ipart ot which is equal if net iuptrior in quality
to any high lands, yet .uncleared in .y otlyivani*.
here are feprm ir a dwdrling houle, neceHaty
out houics, a very large barn, and a mod valua
ble Mill leat, with a mil.-Jaioule already built,
capable of Manutadluring Twenty thoulaajJ
i ufiit is of wheat annually, alter being put ui per
fed repair. * here is alio upun it about iixty
Acies of lirft ratemeviow laird, part of which
is already reclaimed and ha: produced very heavy
crops of Timothy felay. ihe above Land is
bounded by th# lands of Gen, A. Spotfwood,
Meiers Wm. Herndon, Mann Page, Francis-
Taliaferro, and the I ratft the (üblcriber at pre
feiit livs en. Any further dilcription 1 deem
nnecel-sry as thole who may be difpol'ed to pur
hafewi.l of coiit fe view the land. Upon laid
ra6 (here aie ahout one hundred and thirty
Bufiiels of Wheat lown, the greatei part of which
look weil and ptomifing.'
ihe laid trad of land will be fold by the fub
icriber at private or public fale, three fourths of
the purchafe money to be paid on the day of fale,
and the ballance in twelve months, bearing al
tered fiom the date, th* purchufcr givit.g bond
with apj>foved fecuiity. If not fold hy private
laie, by the firll Monday in May next, it will
then be fold on the premifes 00 that day if
fair, if n<rt the next day to the higheft bid
der. r J he land in the mean time w ill be
Shewn to any per(ofl wlm may wi(h torur
ehafe by Mefi'ts Francis 1 aliaferro, Jumes Tutt,
Win. Darnaby and thv fubferiber.
LAUiUiNCfi BROCICF v
March 18, 1801. t.M'
Ibr Sulfa ib 1 r
FsPECTFUtLY informs the Public, that
intends to practice the in the Courts «F
\!"xandria and Waihington Coui.ties >r> the
""> "ft ri«f» of Columbia ; and in the Supteme C.iurt
of .the United Stfct.es.—The Public niay telv on
nis jlttvnt»©n to any bufinefs confided to his«are.
At his Offvce co veyancci of every kitijtl pre
pared with accuracy, lecrecy and d-lp;itcb. Bu
f'nefs tranf'i<3ed in any of the Public Offices tor
,P«rlons rcfident at a diftance on moderate teinu.
Letters pofl p:iid will be attended to
By the Publics Obedient Servant,
RORFRt W. PEACOCK-
City of Wafticgton, New-
J erley Aveuue»near the > March 2, 1801.
Capitol. 3 if
f A few Gent'eitien may be accommodatsd
wiui Hoarding and JV W. P.