Now, by the Milan Decreet,. every vessel
vliioh was spoken with by ari English ship
ol War. was declared a good prize—But no
VLssel can arrive in France which has been
spoken with by our snips of war, because
all axe captured under the Oxalers in Coun
cil. Our Government makes it absolutely
impossible to produce the evidence; and.
tnen, tram the Marquis Wellesley, down to
the lowest satellite ot the party, they, with
tne most consummate impudence, declare
the Milan Decree not 1'epealed, bucause
there is no proof. Can there bo any thing
more jesuiucai or machiavelian i With re
spect to the Bei lin Deciee, by which every
Ship that had touched at an English port,
was declared a prize, the American minis
ter offered to give a proof at once decisive
of its repeal) Let an American vessel pro
tected by this government against the or
ders in council, be dispatched trom London
to trance, audit seized, ike question would
be decided. But this offer was at once re
fused, because it would lurnish actual and
xmequivor.al proof of the repeal. The de
cree is formally repealed by Bonaparte, the
same man that made it; and every A inert '
can vessel which has arrived in France |
since, has been permitted to depart with
its proceeds. 1 hey ure now reluming to
America, and most ot them will be cap. ured
under the authority ot toe Orders in Coun
cil, by our ships of war. As but lew can
arrive in the United States, it will, without
doubt, be used as an argument by some ot
our sagacious Editors, that the decree is not
really repealed as so few ships return home
There has been an attempt to deceive the
people of this country with respect to a war
With America. . i
It has been said thut in such an event,
the United States would divide, and the
Northern Slates would form an allancc
■with this country—Let no man place any
confidence in .his ; i> is perfectly fallacious.
The most warm and animated opposition
to the measures of their Government, is
made iu Boston. It consists of ..the very
men, who were the first, to take u|j arms a
guiim this country in the American war.
M; P ckrring, whose addresses have been
published in most ot the papers,-is one of
these individuals who ..engaged with the
greatest ardou. in the rebellion againsuhis
country, and who continued ..in the army
until the independence of America wasac
ki'owieognl. Besides, it n not possible to
suppose such a perversity in .the, human
character, as that they 'would now encoun
ter ail the horrors ot a civil war, to be pla
ced in the situation of Colonists, when, but
a few yeais since, they suffered, all that
liun.au nature can suff r tor the boon
of independence. The opposition in that
country, in consequence of the licentious
ness of the press, is more violent in decla .
m~'ion than in this country ; but foreign
■vv*r would at once unite them as it does
here.—However much they disapprove the
measures of Government, they have ,fore.
Sigh: enough to see the consequex.cee of re
be Uion a. well as ourselves—I.iterest would
pb ige them to rally around their Govern.
. inent ior its support. Though the opposL
turn does not Consist of a filth part of the
population, yet it possesses most of the pub
lic 'unds which, incase ol a disunion, would
Ik lost. They have no lung to hope tor id
the .vent of a war more than they now pos.
*e f. They h .ve tvery inducement to sup
poit their Government in the system it has
ad..pi ed. Their Ctmmeice, in. a national
point of view, is not worifi finrcuing, during
the existence of the Orders in C..uncil, as
their produce must centre in this island,
and of course, has not produced half of its
original Coat ■■■ SlatcvmZn.
. Augustus,
We resume our extracis from the Cer
Than papers, brought oy the Anholt Mail,
“which arrived yesterday We lately seated
that some persons in official situations in
Prussia had been dismissed, and some .ot
them sent to priso..-L appears from the
present papers that great discontent pre
vails in the Prussian states, and that the
persons alluded lo.have incurred the dis
pleasure o g've.n-neni oy taking an ac
tive part in remonstrating against some of
its rec nt measures. 1 he Russians, it is
said, have evacuated the fortressnf Silistria,
which has been taken possession ot by tpe
Turks, ,
Advices from off Flushing state, that the
French fleet lately moved jut, apparently
with intent to put to sen, but that they have
returned again iiiro the harbour. It con
sists ot 17 sail of the line, and a large pro.
portion of frigates, besides these, there
are three ships of the hue at G >ree, and
|vc m the Texel.-These united would
make a formidable fleet of 25 sail of the
line ; and it is supposed that they will en
deavour to form a junction as soon as the
season obliges our ships to leave their sta.
lion ; an event which is likely soon to take
place, as they have already experienced
a great deal of bad we.ither upon that
Coast.
We have received Dublin paper* of the
24th inst. The town of Drogheda, -in the
county of Louth, the county of the Fosters
and their political influence, held a meet
ing on the 2.’d inst. and unanimous] v adop
ted resoluti -ns for a total repeal ofthe pe
nat laws against the Roman Catholics, and
the appointment of a Committee to con
fer and cooperate with the General Com
mittee.
Jtuguat 29.
i.atuz man arnvpa cnis morning, with
Utters u;irl papers to the 8ih inst. We re
Fret to find, from a Proclamation published
by General La y, that •• a scandalous de
sertion, ” we usehioown phrase, has taken
place in his army.—-The fall of Tarragona
Jias, he believes, produced this consequence
Three hundred carts full of sick and woun
ded arrived a*. Madrid on the night of the
28th ot June.
i>ir Joacfih Yorkc returned yesterday
■with his squadron to Portsmouth. It is
stow said, that it had been sent to cruize
>n the latitude of the Western Isles, for the
hoijncward bound China fleet, lately ar
rived, and to escort it home.
A le'ter from a g<*nt'emao in the Isle nf
Ler.n dated the 25th ult. gives hut a mel
vurholy account of the state of a ft firs at
G.idiz -»nd in the Isle, owing tn the total
vant of nncr^y on Hie pai t of the Urgency
•and the C'ortts, and the jealousy too pla-n
I, shewn by thuse in authority, ot our offi
cers and troops. The government t<#c, was
overwhelmed with debt, and the treasury
exhauft ed. The letter says," The mu
rine is 18 months in arrear of pay, and the
army 5; pitiful ns their rations b, the
troops often t»a%3 four or five, days without
Situ"-"Mb WelUsley issafd to be anx
»*!»!, for his rec ill, v orn oi t with (rubles
labor,"-"Gcn» Graham tv as driven from
h’* c. m «<Hfwi by tPe re>,.., atiCc tost was made
ttieviiy point of mo.mn - dbg.isted with
tht groundless jealousy so geoerally shewn,
he begged to be relieved. l‘l»e .etter es
timates the whole of tiie French force .ie
fore Cadiz at I80OO men, but which is not
conceived to be adequate o execute any
thing serious. 1 lie letter observes,** Our
great security is in the strength of our lo
cality, Irom the great extent of marsh, in
tersected with ditches at every twenty
yauli, of great depth and or equal breadth
we have forts every where placed to com
mand all the roads and approaches, so that
we should mow dowu the heads of columns,
which no where could advance but in sec
tious.”
A morning paper says, «• ft is, we uni*
der.stand the intention ofMinisteis, that Par
liament shall assemble in Ocober, lor a
short Session, the clref business of which will
be the removal ot the restrictions so unwise
ly imposed upon the present exercise of
the Koval Authority.”
Second Edition. — ■ The following is a co i
py ot the Bulletin received this day from
Windsor: 1
•* Windsor Castle, dug. 20.
“ There is no alteration in his Majesty’s
symptoms to day.”— [ igntd us usual.]
From the improvements in his physical
state, it is thought His Majesty may linger
a considerable time ; but no change has ta
ken place in the mental malady, which i#I
confirmed and allows no hopes ol recovery,
Plymouth, August 24
The Diana ,Criga;e has detained and sent
in the American brig iJ. u.us, Jono De Car
riere master, from Baltimore, with. SI pas.
sengers bound to Bordeauk.
/ . Dartmouth, August 19.
Arrived yesterday U»c Adelaide, irom
Morlaix, with two Amcricau mease; ger*
with despatches.
Paris, Aug. 16.
Wednesday the 14th at 6 in .lie tven.ng,
salutes of the artillery r.nnouuced the leu of
be. Napoleon. There was admittance gra
lis at the theatres ol Paris.
On the 15th, the day ot the fete, the a .me
salutes wer^. repealed at s,x in tbL morni’-.g,
at mid-day, and at 6 in the e enn.g.
At 9 in lie morning ins Excellency iht M •
msier 01 he Interior, ace , .panied by .he mu
nicipapbody of the ci.y o P..r.s, preceded &
followed by several detachments of troops,
repaired in grand procession 10 the quay
b.. Bernard, to .ay the first stone ot th.
Wine market, and aiterwards to the mar
kei S . Martin, ot which hey laid the first
Sion*. Alter this ceremony the municipal
body was admitted to an auuience of his
maje ty the emperor at the Palace of the
Tuuuleri s
A*, lwu there was a muck tight on the ri
ver be -ween the Pom Ko; al ami that ot the
ThuiUeries. .
Ai mid day ihe temper .r en ered the Hall
ot die 1 hi one, in the Palace of the Thu.l
leries.——— 1 ne Gi aud Chamberlain intro
duced die Princes, Gi and Dignitaries, next
Cardinal sand he Ministers. the great
Officers ol heempir ,the gi and Eagl s jf he
Legion of Honour, anil a 1 tne persons wno
weie entitled to admission..
Ihe Diplomatic Bod. were conducted to
an audience of his Majesty in the accus
tomedioim.
Among other presentations by the Duke
de bassauo, Minister lor Foreign .Affairs
were Messr, James SLo&ne, Samuel Green ,
anu VV. Grade, Citizens ot the United
States ,'
The Diplomatic audience being closed,
the tempi ess was informed of a: meir Ma
jesties then repaired ,o mass, wh.cli w..s
Celebrated by 1ns Eminence tire Grand Ai- i
in oner, and ollowed by Te Deum. Alter
mass mere was a grand audience in the a
partments
Tne gratuitous representation at all the
theatres collected a very numerous con
course. Ail the allusions to the occasion
whicn the pieces repr».seft'ed seemed to ot
ler, weie seized with enthusiasm. At the
Vaudeville, and several other tneatres,
some couplets were sung, the chorus ol which
was repeated with acclamation, and receiv
ed with those feelings by winch the coup
lets were inspired. .
1 he day was superuly fine ; the sty wa>
constantly serene, and the temperature ex.
iremely pleasant ; the games prepared . ",
the bassiu and between he bridge ot the
1 huilleries ejnd that of Concorde, and tho.c
in the Chair.ps telysees, were witnessed Sc
partaken ot by a deiignted multitude, .
A the close ot day, an elegant illuminati
on was displayed in the Champs E.ysees,
at tire ihuilieri s, and at the numerous ad"
joining public buildings. At eight o’clock
a concert was pftr ormed on the terrace of
the 1 alace. {heir imperial majesties ap
peared at the balcony, in the view of an ini
mehse crowd •! spectators, who saluted
.ht;m with the most lively acclamations, , At
nine there were magnificent fire works in
the Palace de la Concorde. The promenade,
the dances, and all the amusements, were
prolonged to a late hour.
Several members of the Legislative Body
are to be created Barons of tile Empire, a
.fnong whom are Ualleul, Bcauverger, Bon
det, 6cc.
August 22.
by a decree of the Emperor, all theatres of
the second tank, small theatres, cabinets of
curiosities, such as machines, figures, ani
utals, See. anti in short all manner of spec,
tacles, including masked balls and concerts
in Paris, are to pay a tax to the Imperial
Academy of Music, The Panoramas,
Cosmorartna, 8c Olympic Circus are includ
ed ; and toe exceptions are, the Theatre
Francuib, the Opera Continue, aud the O
deon.
i he tax shall be, for balls, concerts, fetes
and Tivoli, ffcc. one filth of the gross receipts,
the poof tax being fin aindeducted ; and lor
theatres, and ail i ther exhibitions, one
twentieth ul the receipts’, with the same de
duction,
Augutt 24
Hit Eminence Cardinal Fetch has ad
dreimed ihe following letter to me Cardi
nah. ArchbUhofis, and limhofu, talhert
the Council
'• Furis, August 21.
"MV LORD.
" the Church hr.s just erprrienced u
consider able lost in the fierson of one oj ihc
bather’ of the Council, llernurd Marie
Ctiren7. ini, Lishop of Feltri, deceased at
Fans on the 20th. (Pod has called him to
him at the moment in which he prepared to
.fulfil the hormui able mission ninth which
he hud been charged among :hrir holinesses
— Wt cun now give this Prelate no other
proof's of the esteem he merited but bo put
ting up public prayers for the repose of
his soul In consequence, to follow the pi
••us and ancient usage of the Church of
f ranre, 1 have the honour to inv e v .u
my l.ord, to enter in ba holy uml sum .i u
deliberation, bi, ordering *n v»t»r lUurcse
fir&yere foY the deceased Bishoft, and for
thechoice fa ruorUty «c*cce/<>•*.
" t he Council will cclebra'c at Pans a so
lemn service for the Hish-jfi A circular,
addressed to each of the Puthers, will fio'nt
out the day. hour, and filace. J am &c
*« cardinal fk cir•
Lkipsic, Aug.8.
The new Prussian decree which has pro
hibited ail importation of colonial goods into
the Piussian states, under penalty of con"
fiscation and which forbids even the ex
port ol such as ate there at present, even
though furnished with certificates, has pro
duced a great sensation, and has alrea.
dy raised the price *»f colonial produce. It
is easy to foresee, that if this decree is exe.
cuted with rigour, the pi ice must experi
ence a still more considerable rise.
Antwkkp, August 16.
Marshal the Duke of Reggio (Oudinot)
arfived here yestesday, and set out this
morning to take up the command of/the mi
htary force in Holland. His head.quarters
will be provisionally established at Utrecht.
Letters from Alicant of the 17th ol July
have boon received, which mention, that
great consternation and confusion prevailed
in Valencia, in . consequence of that pro
vince having been threatened with a visit
from Suchet. and a French army of 35.000
men.
, * Viknwa, Aug. 3. '
They write from Turkey, that the Rus..
siahs, on leaving Rudschuck, demolished
and blew up part of the fortifications, and
set lire to ihe lour corners of 'he town • but
the Turks arriving at the moment they re
tired, succeeded in arresting-the progress
of «nc fire, and saving a great part of the
buildings.—The same letters add.
“ I he army of the Grand Vizer, fchich
is properly organized, is three tin-.ee as nu
mercus as that ot General Komisow who
strictly confines himself to acting upon the
defensive, and as it is impossible he can
quickly receive such leintorcements as will
enable hi n to .resume h* »ff?’iiiv\ wc
may consider the campaign as terminated
1 the Grand Vzer think, proper to con
fine himself to the occupation of the right
tank of the Danube; but it appears from all
accounts, that he is determined to profit by
*ctual circumstance, in employing his fo
ces in reconquering the provinces of she
Turkish empire, which remain in posses
sion ol the Russians, and that he has pro
jectea an invasion into Wallachia and Bes
sarabia at the same time ’*
Cfte inquirer.
RICHMOND, OCTOBER 15 1811
• A PROPOSI TION.
The National Intelligencer ot the loth con
tains Ji Proposition for “the establishment
0 an ;n»ti u;D, .j.uu.ficently tmdowedand
extensively ramified, tor the. pnmotion of
*Agriculture.”—Thai paper urges with great
.^ice, .hat ‘-we are next perhaps to the
Chinese, toe most igricultnra! people *n the
v orklp. that there is no object more suscep
pible of promotion by the aid of government,
tn m agriculture ; ‘hat we al know how nu
merous the public institutions :.>r its promc
non are in England, which claims pre •mi
neoce in th.s respect over all he nations of
Europe * and in China, the emp«.ror himselt
pen dically applies in he must pub
lie manner to its labors ; .that institutions
tor the concentration ••and' diffusion ot new
agricultural discoveries and improvements,
•as well as for testing their app.inability to
particular countries or districts, can only be
founded and adequately maintained by the
united resources of a nation; that they are
beyond the power of individuals; and that
it is a fundamental principle of our system,
that as government is not to invade the pro
vince of individuals, so it is its duty to assist
them, who e one or a small number of them
are unable to effect a great public object;
nas this duty must devolve either on the
general or state governments ; that ot
-c urse, the latter possesses less power and
cover* less territory .than the ormer; and
'hat this great duty can then only be dis
cnarged on a proper scale by the general
government; it is a du’y ironi its nature and
tendency strictly federal; that the way to
effect it, is by the establishment of a central
agricul ural board and extensive botanical
garden, with at least one subordinate board
and garden in each state, possessing ihe
means < f collecting and diffusing informati
on ; and that this will require a considerable
sum.” 1 he Intelligencer then proceeds to
open'lls Budget qf Ways and Mean#—nnd
heie we meet with a "National Lottery,
the annual profits of which shall be exclu
sively devoted to this great object—let it be
annually drawn—let the tickets sold produce
8 1.000 00'J—this with the usual deduction
auu «xpences, will annually nett about 8
125,000—and this sum may be devoted to
•‘one great central establishment and 20 af
filiated subordinate institution:!.” The In
telligcncer says a few words to do.away the
01 jections, that may be urged to the lottery.
We applaud the motives of,the Intelligent
C'*r lor making this proposition. The in
terests of agriculture are the great staple
interests of this country; and the improve
ment of this national Art has been too much
neglected, bo fur we agree with the Intel
ligcncer—bu' let us not suffer our attach
n,enf to the object to warm us info an ap
probation of the means which are proposed.
And here it is not so much our objection to
lotteries as to the whole scheme' We go
uptrn his broad ground; that a*, the Con
str.ution now stands.* the U :-v. ha vi nothin?
at all to oo with agricultural boards or boia
nicnl gardens. Tne Constitution is a draft
of sprcifitd and restricted powers. App.y
the only two tests, that we possess, of
the constitutiunality of anypowei. •• Tlte
first question is. whether the power be occ
flYeeaed in the Constitutioi,. It it be, the
question is decided. It it be riot expressed,
the next enquiry must be, whether u is pro-'
perly an ivetrtent to an express power and
necessary to its execution. If it be, it may
be exercised by Congress: It it be not, Con
giess cnnfiot exercise it." (Ke/iort of the
Vitginia Legislature, dfl Utc Alien and Se
ditiou AC's, p. 7:i, drawn up by Air. Madj
[ *0° / „ Will the Intelligencer put ns finger
j upon that cIhu.s! of the Constitution which
speaks of uttfricuUire, Agricultural boards,
botanical garden, endowments, £cc. &c. ?
Agdn, if they are not expressed, how are
these the incidental mean* to the execution
of any power that ia so expressed t
but the trouble c» mtnent is saved, to
our hands, by another luminous passage front
the same Jie/torC—\u which this very pro
position is mentioned- Mr. \l id i son 'S speak
•’g "f ;h design ♦inch had been indicated
to t xpound oeit iin inrXtes ih itsfc Cuostitu
• I be bittri^t ot Ui/(»rT;tJi* being tiwcptcd.
ot* (“common defence nnd genera! wel
fare’*) “so as to d< *troy the eff< c« of the
particuar enumeration ot poweis bt which
u explains them” He then goes on ; "
“ 1 otitese indications might be added with
out looking farther, the official report on
manufactures by the late secretory of the
tr. asury, made on the 5th of December, 1791;
anu the report of the committee ot cougtess
in January 1797, on the promotion of agri.,
culture. In the firsc ofihtse it is expresly
contended to belong •' to the discretion
“ of the national legislature to pronounce
J ** upon the objects which concern the gene
ral we fare, and ior which under that des
“ eruption, an appropriation for money is rc,
“ quisite and proper. And there seems to
“be no room for a doubt that whatever
“ concerns the general interests of lkakn
"INU, ol AGRICULTURK, of MANUKAC
“ Turks, and of commkrcr are wi hin
| ** Jhe sphere of the natiouai councils, as fur
“ u* regards an upfificatron of money."—_
The latter report assumes the same lati'ude
i power in the national councils anti applies
it to the encouragement ot ngricu'ture, by
mentis ot a society to be established ar the
seat o' government. Although neither of
ihe te reports may have received the saiic
iti n of a law carrying it into effect ; yet, on the
other hand, the extraordinary doctr ne. con,
| tamed in both has passed without the slight
est posi ive mark of disapprobation from the
, authority ti- which it was addressed.
“ Now whether the phrases in question be
cons rued 10 authorise every measure re
lating to the common defence and general
welfare, as contended by some; or every
measure only in which, mere nught bean
appl canon of money, as ugg ste l by he
caution of olln»rc, the effect ir-u>t substanci
ally be the same in destroying the import
and iorcc ot the particular enumeration ot
powers, winch follow th-. se general phrases
in he C nstitu ion.. F'»r it is evaf nt that
tlieie t.s n t a singlepovser whatever, which
may not have ap «■-i reference to ’he com
r. on defence, or the geher.il welfare ; n .r a
powc oi any m gmtude which in its e:t
erci e ooes notinv Ive or admit an. npplicfi
non ot mmey. 1 lie g.ivertim nt therefore
which possesses power in either one or o
tiiei ol these extents* is a goV'-t ninent with
out ihe l nmat.pns im'im d >* * a pai titular
enumei a am ui powers}- and co • cqueut’.y
he meaning ami effect *,f tms panicu ar e
numei a ion, is destroyed by tiie exposition
given to iiitse general phrases.
** i his conclusi- n w ill not be affected by an
attempt to quality the power ver t^e • ge
neral wetlare ” by re*err:ng it t«> cases
where the general v>t fa• e is .! ey. d the
•ea-'h o tnfiarate prou* ..*.9 y iht individu
al s ale#; and caving to ms .heir j nis
dicuons in c sts. to^nhich neir »ep iate
p ^ visionaxtiay be cmnpBten . F. r as the
authority of tiie .ndtvidual ^.ates must in all
cases he inccmpetein o g< neral ieguiati«ms
[operating through the whole, ihe auihority
of theU. S. wouid be extended toeveiy ob
■jeci rt-la ting to the general welfare, which
might by any possibility be provided fur by
: the g- neral authority. This qualifying
construction therefore would have little, if
1 any tendency, to circumscribe the power
ci- imed under the latitude of the term “ g*. 1
i neral well..re ”
Ii any on,, thinks, that this power ('orthe
encouragement of Agriculture.) ought 10 1
have ueen given, what is the resource t Let
tiie advocates of such an opinion htingior*
ward such an amendment to the Constitu
tion—and then the sense of the nation will
1>e fairly taken on that point. Bui until it is
a part ot the Constitution, Congress have
m.iigiu to exercise such a power.—In our
opinion, the true doctrine fell from .Cover
nor Clinton, last wiiver, on the Bank Bill_!
a doctrine, which points out to Congress
their duties both-as to the powers whicn are
given ard those which are not given - ■ d
trine, which night be written in lei. r.
GOL D, overthe Halls of C ngrrss : - *•
vertnoent is not to be strengthened by an
assumption .if doubtful powers, bn by a wise
and enegc ic execution of those whickarei
incon'estibie.—If, however, alter a fair ex
periment the powers vested in the govern-I
ment shall be f-und incompetent to the at 1
tain mi nt of the objects for winch i' was in '
stituted, the constitution happily furnishes1
the mean for remedying the evil by amend j
ment.”
ELECTIONS.
The Election f. >• i..e I). of Maryland
took place ;ii tbe 7 h I i :,,e C.y ol ln.'n, .rc,
*he votes were for Wm. Peel.in 1633. Win.
Lowry Donaldson 1592 ; Luther Msitiu 1163
—die two fust, (Ri p ) are elected. The “ Fe
deral Republican” has said, that us Fred<rick
is now democratic and Kent federal, it. .g f„
Dorchester and Talbot to turn tilt, scale. Uf
course, the scale has I tuned in favor of the R •
l>u' licans ; for, I y subsequent returns, Talbot
hss eleett d 4 republicans ; and Dorchester 3
republicans and 1 federalist ; and he only got
in by a sneaking majority of 1 vote.
Strvnnon inker. Esq. (R«J> ) is elected to
C/ftt^ret.r, to supply the vacancy ccssioncd by
the resignation of John Montgomery, *.«q.
',-Tlte,General Election in TennsyRanii, took
place on the 7th, for Governor, .Vr ii >.• 0f the
Legialatur*, Coroners, C>unty Commissioners,
^c—Iii the city of Phdsdelpliia the f der'alists
carrn d their Ticket fur Assembly m l Common
Council.—The nyilerites have earned their as- .
semMymen in the county of Philadelphia ; and j
in fbe district,eomptc’ed of the city ancl county
of Uhifadetpliii, they have also succeeded in
their Senator, .County Commissioner, Coroner,
and Auditors.— In the state at large, the fede
ralists, the vp-totkekub men, ere completely
| down m the dust.— Mr Snyder will be re-elec-1
ted without any opposition worth speaking of
i (T7* Wheat at S 1 33 1-3 cents, cash.
AT Cl i y PO'N i ,
,> FOR L O M L) o M,
l^1 IHt FINE. FA' I IAII.IMO siij;.
s , 4 V ERICK :
Natluhi I Colley, Muster, ‘ inm 550 Minis
Tob/mto, having jins ol her cargo engaged,she
will suit about Muj first of N >\ briber : for
remainder of Freight or Pa»suge, (having ele
guilt ucrommorfMiont) apply to lamnmnd &
Daniel, Pet- rsbiirg, or to
n 11 ID GERCt RO nKRI ROM
Richmond, Dr t. 14 if
T UB LI aAUCTIOM,
WILL liE 'OLD at Pu he Auction, (on
the preiniaes) on Tue-t.h.y Ui<; 29lh ins'
I that large throe story HOUSE on the Man*
Street, near tha Court llotur, lately occupiei
I >y Mr John Glenn -there are sixty six fee
Iront on the main strei t, and running About oh
tondred and filty feet bat k—l et ins will bt
made known on the day of a-.i,..
TIIOMar TJYTOR.
Oct *bpr 15. if
i HE duLscnber will extend his practice 0
A i;,t LAW to the Supi rlor Court of Chan
cery tef the uiilrt. i of Willi«msb>n .
AM ThOXY 'rE n\ ,ln*l
Utbxnna, OvU Xj. **
• r * * ,
HUGH CHAMBERS
NEXT door to Ml, | ill! a ./d’s, (Main
suect.) bus j» ..penea ;iit • <c* i.*nr- as
sortment of fancy and Seasonable DRV
GOODS, which be will sell on accomn citing
terms, wholesale or retail, tor cash ut town
acceptances.
Oct. 15 * «w
DRV GOODS AT PRIME COST.
Subscriber intending to close bis pr
1 sent establishment, offers for cash <-r town
acceptances at wholesale or retail, bis Valuible
Slock of Dry Good» at Prime Colt—Consisting
of a general assortment of British, French and
India Goods, well calculated lor the present 8s
approaching season.
JOH.Y WOOD.
0<it 15: ‘ tf
. AGRICULTURAL society.
ON the 1st inst. at a meeting of. the Rich
mond Society for promoting1 Agriculture »■
7htrtnaj Aliher, tf Powhatan,
| H'iUo/i Cary Nicholas, of dlbemat le,
. I**tUnn Mien, of Caroline, O'
f'tnry fVat tint, of Prince Edward.'.
. 'VI.o haA been nominated at a former meel^
try, were duly elected memb.rs.
A letter from John S. Slaughter, of Cufpep*
per, in answer to the 7th, 16th, fit 6!sl queries.
Published by the Society m the Bixiuuer oi'tbe
9tb April last :
A letter from Tbeo : Armistcad of Norfolk,
on the subject of extracting from oak bark, the
tann'iig -ubstaHce ;
Also it ..-iter lrooi Wilson Cary Nicholas, en
closing a copy of a letter written by him to Mr.
Rodman of North Carolina, in reply to several
queries propounded by the latter as to the cul
tur • of hemp s
Were . e*d and referred to the Committee of
Corresponde t .cc.
. ,, CEO v HAT, Sec'y.
Oft 15 It
(INTEND, after the November quar.erly
Court/, to leave this Stale for a few
months
SAMUEL McC. A1V.
Richmond, Oct 15 tf
RICHMOND TURNPIKE COMPANY.
Ari a m< cling si* t lit Director's of »-i'i Com*
pai y on Friday, the 17tii of Ocl. lttl 1
hesoNed, That a dividend of fiv^ dollars on
etch share i*.i the company be made, aMu t’>at
tile Treasurer p^y the same to the respit live
share holders, on application, on. or alter the
2Cth of * Ids month.
Ttsic,
N SHEPPARD. Cl'i.
Oct 15 ? • 3w
WOT1CE—Those who have claims >,n the
E»t«ie of Hardeman Royster, dect mej,
are reumsted to exhibit them to W ill an. Fen
tv ik, of Mancliestei ; and such as •.re indebt
ed thereto, aie requested to mak- p*ym r.t to
him, without delay—the situation of the Estate
a imiiii-ig of no indulgence So soon «s ti.ey
can oc prepared, copies of the amounts of .ho
latter will .e deposited with Mr Isa ic White,
in Richmond, to whom, or to Mr. James Bream,
payments n.jry in the mean time be made.
JANE ROYSTER, Jdm’x.
Oct. 15 if
Pciomac and Shenandoah Navigation Lot
tery—State of the Wheel,
Afet lhcJ4.ii day of drawing, (~or.ty three thou
sand Cickcts to l e drawn J
1 pi ixs of g 25,000
1 10,000
1 5000
1 1000
1 500 * *
6 100
Besides a vast many of JO, 20, 12 and 10 dol
lars each
Total gain of the Y/heel 24 574 gj
1’iesenl price of Tickets twenty dollars.
The next day of drawing wdl be on Wednesday
llit 23d of October—the first drawn Ticket a
prist of 10,020 dollar*.
Tickets and Shares jelling by JOSEPH
MILLIGAN, Bookseller, Georgetown, Cotum••
biit
Al. a f. w may be had by immediate applica
tion T’lOtna Brown, at the Post-offim , »<icli-*
mm
C kets wdl be advanced to25 d !l*r» on
PJonViy the 21st inst
^__ If
iHE Sti s iil> i- • nag s. „ ,| ■ . ()p
t'1 ••ofcoifcss wit.j Mr W m Firi ii,j jet
fully ini' r ns .s fiends ,nd the public Hiat.
SHELTON/. FINNEY have t.ikntbi h, „*e
i prr*. •> ..ecu: .'d by M -,m St John and
M ic.irll.-I bey will r»ceiv- by t {; H1._
rivnls fr m B sfon, Hrw-York nd P i del
plna, a very grnc. ai ass rm.-nt nl GROCE -
RIES, wiicb they intend to •lispoe of n mo
d rate terms for cash, country pioduce, or ap
proved paper.
JOHNS. SKELTON.
Richmond, Oct. 15.
W, here AS on Wednesday evening be
' f tween ilu- hours of 6 unj 7. * person
knowing of my absence troin home on th t.usi
"•ssof tbe Tlieati e, fore* l ins way ir.i ho
house and insulted my >ifp — The Irltle cies , .pi
t oo I have been able to collect wns h.* inn*
dressed in datk cloatlies, curryfng :t , ot.
(iinberella ; any one-pissing by „i the tim men
tioned, and seeing a person described us a. ».ve,
if they cm give any inlonnstion in clue ;haC
muy loud to a discover) of t’ e offender,* snail
receive a rt ward of JO d II s
THOM AM WEST.
Near Mr M' A ec/uiic t an Lard.
Ortobe; 15
LAND & N1 GHOES LOP. SALE.
|i Y Virtue ol a .tecrec oi ,t Honor., le Supe.
AJ nor Court of Ci.vn. ery> t«»r the Hie rt« j
District, will be sold, t. the Ingh'-ti for
ready nn.ne>, on the second M ...dsy m Nc*em
ben next, if lair, otbertvo tin- next fair d,v
ahout d».rty lour SLA VL: , and that valuable*
tract of Land, called MUUN f IH.EA.SANT
the be-utilul seat of the late Robert Do..aid*
Es;i deceased, situ tc in the Coun'.y of Ches’
le.field, upon Appomatto* River, about ihree
mile , below the Town ot fcc.eraburg, and cor
turning, aero, ding to ihje Drrd, 330 acres, more
or leas.—rhera s.upon the Land • convenient
dwellingifou.e .uid out houses) and its vicini
ty to T. t r.-l urg, its situ ilion on navigable wa
ter, lerlilily of and, .nd otlic. advantages n
dent a {|c*irahle property —The »ate-v Will b
mac.- at ti.y dwelling house ; and if any K«
niun 'mould wi .*• to v ew th • place bet i. Uic
day oi aide, it will he shewn bin by vtr Rich,
aid il«ie, wlio resides upon die prenu ■ „
(11I£ D ANiLLC ALL, Cotn’r.
Oct. 15.
UY virtue of the ubme decree of the Honore
ol- Superior Court of Chancery for th Rich
mond District, wjii also be sold to th<: fug,.cat
bidder, tor ready money, ut the dwelling i ,„rc
• Doctor Tttomas Augustus Taylor, n, „ CD
ine’s in the c uniy ot Ci tsteifidtl, ,, ltlc
-. -ond Thm xd'.y in November next, be ng {iA ,
14 h day ot live said mon.h, it lair, otln- e- y
he next fair day, the o-.btr personal e» u
sa:’1 Hc.aert D<m..ld, decc itd, Cl, J
>1 house.iold and k.uhe.i tum.idc. ui - '*«
&c. "*>
I- Daniel Cali r •
I R iftC jnd; Me'. 1» ^ Ccn%j